EP-1310580-A2<id_sep>classC23class subclassC23Csubclass sectionCsection groupC23C30slash00group subgroupC23C14slash06subgroup Hard layer-coated tool A tool coated with a hard Ti/B layer having fine boron nitride particles dispersed therein, wherein the bonding energy of B and N is observed in an ESCA analysis of the hard coating layer; wherein peaks of c-BN and h-BN is detected in an Raman spectroscopy of the hard coating layer; wherein a ratio Q The present invention relates to a hard layer-coated tool used for cutting metal materials, etc., particularly to a hard layer-coated tool having excellent crater wear resistance for use in high-speed cutting and dry cutting. Cutting tools coated with TiN, Ti(CN), (TiAl)N, etc. are conventionally used widely. However, layers of TiN or Ti(CN) fail to exhibit sufficient oxidation resistance and wear resistance during high-speed cutting. Because a (TiAl)N layer has superior oxidation resistance to that of TiN and Ti(CN), it is used under cutting conditions that a tool edge tip is subjected to high temperatures. However, seizure occurs at a tool edge tip during cutting at high temperatures, failing to achieve sufficient tool life. JP 2001-293601 A discloses a wear-resistant TiN layer containing fine compound particles of BN, TiB An object of at least the preferred embodiment of the present invention is to provide a hard layer-coated tool suitable for a dry cutting operation at a high speed and a high feed, which is provided with improved seizure resistance at high temperatures and suppressed diffusion of elements in a work to a hard coating layer, without sacrificing the wear resistance and adhesion of a hard (TiAl)N coating layer, etc. having excellent oxidation resistance. As a result of intensive research in view of the above object, the inventors have found that in a tool having a hard coating layer formed on a substrate surface, the layer being made of any of a nitride, a carbonitride, an oxinitride and an oxicarbonitride each containing Ti and B as metal elements, when the hard coating layer is formed such that (a) a boron nitride phase is dispersed, (b) the bonding energy of B and N is observed by ESCA, and (c) the existence of c-BN and/or h-BN is observed by Raman spectroscopy, the lubricating properties of the hard Ti coating layer are improved by the lubricating properties of the BN phase, whereby its crater wear resistance is remarkably improved. The inventors have also found that in a cutting operation in a dry state at a high speed and a high feed, by suppressing a phenomenon of diffusion of elements contained in a work to a hard coating layer, no seizure of a work to a tool occurs and the crater wear resistance of a tool is remarkably improved, resulting in an extremely long tool life. The inventors have further found that necessary to improve the hardness and lubricating properties of the hard coating layer remarkably is not only the addition of B but also the optimization of the coating conditions. The present invention has been completed based on these findings. Thus, the hard layer-coated tool of the present invention is coated with a hard layer made of any of a nitride, a carbonitride, an oxinitride and an oxicarbonitride each containing Ti and B as metal elements; wherein the hard coating layer contains a boron nitride phase; wherein the bonding energy of B and N is observed in an ESCA analysis of the hard coating layer; and wherein the existence of c-BN and/or h-BN is observed in a Raman spectroscopy of the hard coating layer. A tool coated with a hard layer made of any of a nitride, a carbonitride, an oxinitride and an oxicarbonitride each contains Ti and B as metal elements; wherein said hard coating layer contains a boron nitride phase; wherein the bonding energy of B and N is observed in an ESCA analysis of said hard coating layer; and wherein the existence of c-BN and/or h-BN is observed in a Raman spectroscopy of said hard coating layer. The hard layer-coated tool according to claim 1, wherein a half-value width Z of a (200) face in an X-ray diffraction of said hard coating layer is in a range of 0.3° to 0.6°; wherein peaks of c-BN and h-BN are detected in an Raman spectroscopy of said hard coating layer; wherein a ratio Q1/Q2 of a peak intensity Q1 of c-BN to a peak intensity Q2 of h-BN is 1.0 or more; and wherein a ratio K/L of a face thickness K to a flank thickness L in said tool is 1.0 or more. The hard layer-coated tool according to claim 1 or 2, wherein said hard coating layer is formed by using a target of a Ti-B alloy; and wherein the content of B in said hard coating layer is 0.1 to 50 atomic %, based on the total amount (100 atomic %) of metal elements. The hard layer-coated tool according to any one of claims 1 to 3, further comprising, as a layer other than said hard coating layer, a hard coating layer comprising at least one metal element selected from the group consisting of Ti, Al and Cr, and at least one non-metal element selected from the group consisting of C, O and N. The hard layer-coated tool according to claim 4, wherein part of Al in the hard coating layer containing Ti and Al is substituted by at least one selected from the group consisting of metals in the Groups 4a, 5a and 6a and Si. The hard layer-coated tool according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein a tool substrate is made of cemented carbide or cermet; and wherein the total thickness of said hard coating layer is 3 to 15 µm in a tool face. The hard layer-coated tool according to any one of claims 1-6, wherein said tool is an insert. <seperator>EP-1233240-A2<id_sep>groupF25B15slash00group classF25class sectionFsection subgroupF25B41slash04subgroup subgroupF25B15slash02subgroup groupF25B29slash00group subclassF25Bsubclass Absorption type cooling and heating apparatus There are provided a conduit (9b) for transferring a refrigerant to the evaporator (9), a conduit (7b) for transferring an absorbent solution to the regenerator (3), and a branch conduit (9a). A check valve (17) is provided for communicating the branch conduit (9a) to the conduit (7b). A check valve (V3) is provided for allowing the flow from the absorber (2) to the regenerator (3). The valve (17) and the valve (V3) are communicated at downstream side to each other. Those check valves may be assembled in a single unit where a valve is arranged of a (free) ball shape and can be shifted by a pressure difference to switches each valve port, acting as a three-way valve. At the start-up or full condensation mode, the check valve (17) remains open while the check valve (V3) is closed. This permits the refrigerant to flow from the condenser (9) via the branch conduit (9a) to the regenerator (3).  The present invention relates to an absorption type cooling and heating apparatus for operating in three different modes: cooling operation, heat-pump heating operation, and direct-burner or direct flame heating operation, and particularly to an absorption type cooling and heating apparatus arranged in which a cooling operation and a heat-pump operation are carried out at optimum conditions and can readily be switched to a direct-burner heating operation. There has been increased the demand of an absorption type cooling and heating apparatus which can carry out a heat-pump heating operation with the use of heat pumped up by an absorber in addition to a cooling operation. Such a heat-pump heating may however be declined in the efficiency of pumping up an energy of heat as the ambient temperature drops down. For compensation, an improvement is disclosed in Japanese Patent Publication (Heisei)6-97127 where if the ambient temperature is too low, the heat-pump heating operation is replaced with a direct-burner heating operation. We, the applicants, have developed an absorption type cooling and heating apparatus which can easily switch between a cooling operation, a heat-pump heating operation, and a direct-burner heating operation as is disclosed in Japanese Patent Laid-open Publication (Heisei)10-197008. Our reference cooling and heating apparatus has a closed circulation loop where, when heat-pump heating operation fails to generate a required power of heating, a refrigerant in vapor heated to a high temperature by a regenerator is transferred to a condenser where it comes into contact with a contact with a cooling water conduit and is thus condensed before returned back to the regenerator. This allows the refrigerant vapor extracted from the regenerator to be fully condensed by the condenser but not circulated from the condenser to an evaporator, thus shifting from the heat-pump heating operation to the direct-burner heating operation. Also, we have developed another absorption type cooling and heating apparatus which has a dedicated circulation path for permitting the refrigerant to spontaneously drop down from a condenser to a rectifier thus to circulate from the condenser via the rectifier to a regenerator as disclosed in Japanese Patent Laid-open Publication (Heisei)10-267448. The absorption type cooling and heating apparatus with the dedicated circulation path however needs an extra conduit of the dedicated circulation path for circulating the refrigerant, hence increasing the number of joints. This is unfavorable for generating a degree of vacuum in the system of the apparatus. The apparatus may be modified with a bypass where the refrigerant over-flown from the condenser is directly returned back to the top portion of the rectifier. It is yet necessary for inhibiting overflow in the other operation mode than the direct-burner heating operation to save a more amount of the refrigerant in the condenser. As a result, the duration of time from the initiation of the direct-burner heating operation to the start of overflow will be extended thus creating substantially a time delay be fore starting the direct-burner heating operation. As the refrigerant remaining in the condenser stays out of the actual operation, the energy spent for saving the refrigerant prior to the overflow will be wasted. An absorption type cooling and heating apparatus having an evaporator(1) for holding a refrigerant, an absorber(2) for allowing an absorbent solution to absorb a refrigerant vapor generated in the evaporator(1), a regenerator for recovering the density of an absorbent in the absorbent solution by heating up to extract the refrigerant vapor from the absorbent solution, a refrigerant vapor passage for transferring the refrigerant vapor from the regenerator (3) to a condenser(9), and the condenser (9) for condensing the refrigerant vapor which is returned back to the evaporator(1), where in a cooling operation, a heat-pump heating operation, and a direct-burner heating operation can be performed selectively, said absorption type cooling and heating apparatus comprising:  An absorption type cooling and heating apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the switching device(17) is a first check valve for allowing the flow from the condenser(9) via the branch conduit(9a) to the regenerator(3) while a second check valve(V3) is also provided for allowing the flow from the absorber (2) to the regenerator(3), the first and second check valve(17)(V3) communicated with each other at the downstream side. An absorption type cooling and heating apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the first and second check valves are assembled in a single unit (21) having a movable valve portion(22) provided at the downstream junction thereof so that the valve portion(22) can be shifted to each end of its movement by a pressure difference between two fluids introduced into the input ports(21a)(21b) of the first and second check valves, thus the first check valve is shut up when the valve portion(22) shifted to one end of its movement and the second check valve when the valve portion(22) shifted to the other end. <seperator>EP-1561454-A1<id_sep>subgroupA61K8slash30subgroup subclassA61Ksubclass classA61class subclassA61Qsubclass subgroupA61K8slash49subgroup subgroupA61K8slash03subgroup groupA61Q11slash00group subgroupA61K8slash92subgroup subgroupA61K8slash34subgroup sectionAsection subgroupA61K8slash31subgroup Two-phase compositions containing alcohol The present invention relates to a two-phase composition that provides anti-microbial action and desorbs bacteria from solid surfaces and from living tissues, and in particular breath freshening and plaque removal. The composition provides fast and persistent anti-microbial activity and includes a hydro-alcoholic phase, an oil phase, and a cationic surface active agent. FIELD OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to a two-phase composition. One phase of the composition is hydro-alcoholic, and the other phase is an oil phase. When utilized as a mouth rinse, the composition desorbs bacteria from the teeth and other surfaces of the mouth and provides anti-microbial properties to the mouth. The primary use for the composition of the present invention is in oral hygiene. Compositions of the invention can also be used in entirely different applications, where anti-microbial and bacterial desorption actions are desired. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Tooth decay and periodontal disease are due to bacterial accumulations on the surfaces of the teeth in the form of a macroscopic layer generally referred to as dental plaque. Dental plaque firmly adheres to the surface of teeth, and is composed of about 70% bacteria, about 20% polysaccharides produced by the bacteria and about 10% food remains. It is generally known that acids stored in dental plaque decalcify enamel, causing dental caries. The generation of dental caries is also linked to the presence of certain types of bacteria on the surfaces of teeth. Halitosis, generally referred to as bad breath, has been attributed to the presence and activity of bacteria in the oral cavity. Swollen gums, generally referred to as gingivitis, occurs when the bacteria in dental plaque causes the gums to become inflamed. In the mildest form of gingivitis the gums redden, swell and bleed easily. Accordingly, decreasing the amount of bacteria in the mouth in a fast and efficient way is desired in order to maintain fresh breath for a longer period of time and to prevent dental caries and gingivitis. Mouth rinses are commonly utilized to freshen the breath and kill bacteria. Alcohol is typically utilized as the antimicrobial agent in a mouth rinse. However, alcohol can be damaging or irritating to oral tissues. If alcohol were to be used, it would be desirable to use lower levels of alcohol. The desire for a liquid composition that offers long-lasting fresh breath in a mouth rinse without having oral tissue damage or irritation due to the presence of alcohol has led to the development of two-phase liquid compositions. U.S. Patent No. 6,465,521, Rosenberg discloses a composition for desorbing bacteria from surfaces of the teeth. Rosenberg's invention uses a two-phase preparation of oil and water, which upon shaking forms a temporary oil-in-water emulsion. Unlike the present invention, Rosenberg's invention does not include a hydro-alcoholic phase that offers faster and more efficient anti-microbial activity with desired plaque desorption features. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION In accordance with this invention, there is provided a two-phase composition which upon shaking forms an emulsion, comprising: The invention will be more fully understood and further advantages will become apparent when reference is made to the following detailed description. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS The two-phase composition of the present invention includes from about 50% to about 98% by weight, based on the total weight of the composition, of a hydro-alcohol phase. As used herein, hydro-alcohol phase means a mixture comprising water and ethyl alcohol. The amount of ethyl alcohol in the two-phase composition may range from about 2% to about 50%, preferably from about 5% to about 20%, more preferably from about 8% to about 12%, by weight, based on the total weight of the composition. The ethanol used in the practice of the present invention must be of a grade that is safe for oral use. A two-phase composition which, upon shaking, forms an emulsion, comprising:  The composition of claim 1 wherein the hydro-alcoholic phase comprises from 2% to 50% by weight alcohol and from 48% to 96% by weight water, based on the total weight of the composition. The composition according to claim 2 wherein the alcohol is ethanol. The composition according to any one of claims 1 to 3 wherein the amount of the oil phase ranges from 2% to 50% by weight, based on the total weight of the composition. The composition according to claim 4 wherein the oil phase comprises olive oil, corn oil, coconut oil, soybean oil, safflower oil, mineral oil, grapeseed oil, canola oil, sesame seed oil, cottonseed oil, polydecene or a mixture thereof. The composition according to any one of claims 1 to 5 wherein the amount of the cationic surface active agent ranges from 0.001% to 5% by weight, based on the total weight of the composition. The composition according to claim 6 wherein the cationic surface active agent is cetylpyridinium chloride, laurylpyridinium chloride, chlorhexidine, chlorhexidine diacetate, chlorhexidine digluconate, chlorhexidine dihydrochloride, benzalkonium chloride, cetalkonium chloride, cetalkonium bromide, lauralkonium chloride, lauralkonium bromide, soytrimonium chloride, polyethylene glycol-5 stearyl ammonium lactate, dilauryl dimonium chloride, dicetyl dimonium chloride, dicetyl dimonium bromide, dequalinium chloride, soyamido propyl benzyldimonium chloride, quatemium 15, a polyquatemium, an amine fluoride, chitosan, poly L-lysine, poly D-lysine, lysozyme or a combination thereof. The composition according to claim 7 wherein the cationic surface active agent is cetylpyridinium chloride. The composition according to any one of claims 1 to 8 further comprising lactic acid. The composition according to claim 9 wherein the composition has a pH of from 3.7 to 4.3. <seperator>EP-1266994-A1<id_sep>subclassD21Dsubclass sectionDsection groupD21D1slash00group groupD21B1slash00group subgroupD21D1slash20subgroup subclassD21Csubclass subgroupD21C9slash16subgroup subclassD21Bsubclass classD21class subgroupD21C9slash10subgroup subgroupD21B1slash16subgroup High temperature peroxide bleaching of mechanical pulps A method of making bleached mechanical pulps is disclosed for pulping mills having a primary and a secondary refiner. A first step (100) is to provide cellulosic materials, such as wood chips to refine into the pulp; the wood chips have an initial brightness level. A second step (102) is to provide a bleaching liquor to the refining system of the pulp mill, wherein the liquor comprises an amount of hydrogen peroxide and an amount of alkali having greater than 0% to 100% magnesium hydroxide or soda ash or a combination thereof. A third step (104,106) is to hold the pulp with the bleaching liquor at a temperature in the range of about 85° to about 160°C and for about 2 to about 180 minutes.  The present invention is directed to processes for producing mechanical pulps, and more particularly to hydrogen peroxide bleaching of thermomechanical pulps and the resultant pulps made therefrom. Mechanical pulping is a process of mechanically triturating wood into its fibers for the purpose of making pulp. Mechanical pulping is attractive as a method for pulping because it achieves high yields when compared to chemical pulping because lignin is not removed from mechanically pulped woods, meaning scarce resources are more efficiently utilized. Pulps made using any of the conventional mechanical pulping methods are mainly used for newsprint, and are unsuitable for higher quality or more durable paper and products. This is due, in part, to the fact that mechanical pulps are generally more difficult to bleach than chemical pulps. There are many variants of mechanical pulping including stone grinding (SG), pressurized stone grinding (PSG), refiner mechanical pulping (RMP), thermomechanical pulping (TMP), and chemi-thermomechanical pulping (CTMP). The latter three can further be grouped generally under refiner pulping processes. In RMP, wood chips are ground between rotating metal disks. The process usually is carried out in two stages. The first stage is mainly used to separate the fibers, while the second stage is used to treat the fiber surface for improved fiber bonding of paper products. In RMP, the wood chips are refined at atmospheric pressure in both a first and a second stage refiner. The refiner process generates heat by the friction of the metal disks against the wood. The heat is liberated as amounts of steam which is often used to soften the incoming chips. TMP differs from RMP in that the pulp is made in a pressurized refiner. In this process, two stages are normally used also. The first stage refiner operates at elevated temperature and pressure, and the second stage refiner is at ambient conditions. The first stage separates the fibers and the second stage then treats the fibers. Pulps made by TMP have high strength, which makes the TMP process the most favored mechanical pulping process. However, there is still room for improvements. The TMP process consumes high energy, and the pulp produced by the TMP process tends to be darker than most other pulps. CTMP uses both chemical and thermal pretreatment for processing the wood chips into pulp. CTMP is a chemi-thermomechanical process that is similar to TMP, except that the chips are first pretreated with relatively small amounts of sodium hydroxide with hydrogen peroxide under elevated temperature and pressure prior to refining. The adjuvant chemicals make the separation of the cellulosic fibers much easier in the refiners. The foregoing list is by no means exhaustive. There are innumerable combinations and variants of the pulping processes as exemplified in Bleaching is a term applied to a semi-chemical or chemical step in a pulping process to increase the brightness of both chemical and mechanical pulps. In mechanical pulping, the increase in brightness is achieved by altering the chemical structure of the conjugated double bonds in lignin. The conjugated double-bonded species are called chromophores. "Brightening" is the term often used when referring to bleaching of mechanical pulps to distinguish it from the bleaching process of chemical pulps, which differs by removing lignin entirely. As used hereinafter "bleaching" will be intended to cover the process of "brightening" as well. In mechanical pulps, brightening is often carried out in a single step in the pulping process. The bleaching process is conventionally carried out in a bleaching train in one or a plurality of vessels (bleach towers or stages) in a distinct section of the mill plant, as opposed to the pulping section of the mill. Brightening can be carried out using oxidative and/or reductive chemical agents including oxidating reagents, such as hydrogen peroxide and reducing agents, such as dithionite, or sodium hydrosulfate. Normally, hydrogen peroxide, an oxidizing agent, is used with sodium hydroxide. For a more thorough discussion of bleaching chemistry, reference is made to A method of brightening mechanical pulp, comprising the steps of:  The method of Claim 1, further comprising the step of:  The method of Claim 1, wherein the temperature is greater than 100°C to about 160°C. The method of Claim 3, wherein the time is from about 10 minutes to less than about 180 minutes. The method of Claim 3, wherein the time is from greater than 60 minutes to less than 120 minutes. The method of Claim 3, wherein the time is from greater than 2 minutes to less than 60 minutes. The method of Claim 1, wherein the bleaching liquor comprises an amount of alkali which is the equivalent of about 10 to about 100 pounds of NaOH per ton of pulp on a dry basis. The method of Claim 7, wherein about 40% to about 100% of the alkali is Mg(OH)2. The method of Claim 7, wherein about 50% to about 100% of the alkali is Na2CO3. The method of Claim 1, wherein the bleaching liquor comprises hydrogen peroxide in an amount of about 10 to about 200 pounds per ton of pulp on a dry basis. The method of Claim 1, wherein the consistency of the pulp is greater than about 3%. The method of Claim 1, wherein the ratio of alkali to hydrogen peroxide is about 0.25 to about 3 on a weight basis. The method of Claim 1, wherein the bleaching liquor further comprises a chelating agent in an amount up to about 10% by weight. The method of Claim 13, wherein the chelating agent is selected from the group consisting of aminopolycarboxylic acids (APCA), ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA), diethylene trixamine pentaacetic acid (DTPA), nitrilotriacetic acid (NTA), phosphonic acids, ethylenediaminetetramethylene-phosphonic acid (EDTMP), diethylenetriaminepentamethylenephosphonic acid (DTPMP), nitrilotrimethylenephosphonic acid (NTMP), polycarboxylic acids, gluconates, citrates, polyacrylates, and polyaspartates or any combination thereof. The method of Claim 1, wherein the bleaching liquor further comprises silicate in an amount up to about 10% by weight. The method of Claim 1, wherein the brightness of the pulp is increased by at least about 1 brightness unit (ISO). The method of Claim 1, wherein the refining system defines a first and second refiner and an interstage section between the first and second refiner. The method of Claim 17, wherein an amount of alkali is provided at the first refiner. The method of Claim 18, wherein the alkali is Mg(OH)2. The method of Claim 17, wherein an amount of alkali is provided at the interstage section. The method of Claim 20, wherein the alkali is Na2CO3. The method of Claim 1, defining an ending residual peroxide level, wherein the residual peroxide level is increased in comparison to the residual peroxide level obtained if 100% of the alkali is NaOH and the pulp and bleaching liquor are held at about the same time and temperature conditions. The method of Claim 22, wherein the residual peroxide level of the pulp is increased by at least about 0.5%. The method of Claim 1, wherein the residual peroxide level is greater than about 0.7%. The method of Claim 1, defining an ending pulp yield, wherein the pulp yield is increased in comparison to the pulp yield obtained if 100% of the alkali is NaOH and the pulp and bleaching liquor are held at about the same time and temperature conditions. The method of Claim 25, wherein the pulp yield is increased by at least about one-half of a percent. The method of Claim 1, wherein the pulp yield is greater than about 95.9%. The method of Claim 1, defining an ending oxalate concentration wherein the oxalate concentration is decreased in comparison to the oxalate concentration obtained if 100% of the alkali is NaOH and the pulp and bleaching liquor are held at about the same time and temperature conditions. The method of Claim 1, wherein the oxalate concentration of undiluted pressate is reduced by at least about 10 mg/l. The method of Claim 1, defining an ending COD level wherein the COD is decreased in comparison with the COD if 100% of the alkali is NaOH and the pulp and bleaching liquor are held at about the same time and temperature conditions. The method of Claim 30, wherein the COD is reduced by at least about 1 unit in kg/ODMT. The method of Claim 1, defining an ending BOD level, wherein the BOD is decreased in comparison with the BOD if 100% of the alkali is NaOH and the pulp and bleaching liquor are held at about the same time and temperature conditions. The method of Claim 32, wherein the BOD is reduced by at least about one-tenth of one unit in kg/ODMT. The method of Claim 1, wherein the refining system defines a first and second refiner, wherein the bleaching reaction is not quenched before the second refiner. The method of Claim 1, wherein the bleaching liquor further comprises a bleaching aid in an amount up to about 10% by weight. The method of Claim 1, wherein the bleaching liquor comprises a charge of hydrogen peroxide that is about the equivalent of 3% by weight of a solution of 60:40 water to hydrogen peroxide. The method of Claim 1, wherein the bleaching liquor comprises a charge of hydrogen peroxide that is about the equivalent of 2% by weight of a solution of 60:40 water to hydrogen peroxide. A method of brightening mechanical pulps, comprising the steps of:  The pulp made by the method of Claim 1, having a brightness of at least about 55 ISO. The pulp of Claim 39, having a brightness of about 55 to about 69.5 ISO. A method of brightening mechanical pulp, comprising the steps of:  <seperator>EP-1245384-A2<id_sep>classB41class subclassB41Csubclass sectionBsection subgroupB41C1slash10subgroup Image exposure control apparatus in multicolor printing press An image exposure control apparatus includes a memory (110h-110o) and an adjustment section (110a). The memory (110j,110k) stores a correction amount for each color in accordance with a stretch amount of a printing paper sheet in multicolor printing operation. The adjustment section (110a) adjusts an exposure position of a pixel of an image to be exposed for each color, on the basis of the correction amount read out from said memory means (110j,110k), in exposing the image on a printing plate.  Background of the Invention The present invention relates to a control apparatus for an image exposure apparatus which exposes an image on a printing plate, an image exposure apparatus, and a control apparatus which controls a multicolor printing press. In recent years, in order to improve the efficiency of plate making operation or to improve the registration accuracy, a plate making apparatus is attached to a printing press itself whereby plate making operation is directly performed on the printing press by the plate making apparatus. That is, instead of using a plate making apparatus separated from a printing press, a printing plate (raw plate) mounted on a plate cylinder is irradiated with a laser beam from the head of a plate making apparatus attached to a printing unit, thereby exposing an image. This operation is called plate making on press. More specifically, the rotation speed of the printing press is increased to a designated value. When the rotational speed has stabilized, laser irradiation (exposure) from the head to the printing plate is started. After that, the head is moved in the axial direction of the plate cylinder while continuing exposure, thereby exposing an image on the entire plate mounted on the plate cylinder. The exposure time is determined by the plate size and the designated rotational speed at the time of exposure. Techniques for exposing an image on a printing plate by laser irradiation are disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 5,379,698 (reference 1) and the like, and a detailed description thereof will be omitted. Fig. 4 shows the attached state of plate making apparatuses to a four-color rotary printing press. Referring to Fig. 4, plate making apparatuses 102-1 to 102-4 are attached to printing units 101-1 to 101-4 of the respective colors. The plate making apparatuses 102-1 to 102-4 are normally at positions indicated by the alternate long and two dashed lines in Fig. 4. When exposure operation is to be performed, they are moved close to plate cylinders 103-1 to 103-4 in the printing units 101-1 to 101-4. Reference numerals 104-1 to 104-4 denote blanket cylinders on which blankets are mounted. Impression cylinders (not shown) are arranged under the blanket cylinders 104-1 to 104-4. Fig. 5 shows main part of a plate making apparatus 102. The plate making apparatus 102 has an exposure unit 102b having a head 102a. The exposure unit 102b is fixed on a table 102c. The table 102c moves in the axial direction (indicated by a double-headed arrow A-B) of a plate cylinder 103 while being guided along rails 102f1 and 102f2 on a base 102f by a ball screw 102e rotated by a motor 102d. A printing plate (raw plate) 105 is mounted on the surface of the plate cylinder 103. In plate making on press, the exposure range of an image onto the printing plate 105 is set before the start of actual image exposure by causing an operator to input the X-coordinate distance (X1,0) from the origin (0,0) at the left edge on the leading edge side of the printing plate 105 to the left edge of the image range and the Y-coordinate distance (0,Y1) to the leading edge of the image range, as shown in Fig. 6. That is, let W be the image size in the X-axis direction, and H be the image size in the Y-axis direction. The origin (0,0) is defined at the left edge on the leading edge side of the printing plate 105. The image range is defined by X-coordinates "X1" and "X1 + W" and Y-coordinates "Y1" and "Y1 + H". An image exposure control apparatus characterized by comprising:  An apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising distortion preventing means (111) for deforming a trailing edge side of the printing paper sheet before start of printing, thereby preventing distortion of a shape of the image after printing. An apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said distortion preventing means comprises  An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said memory means comprises  An apparatus according to claim 4, wherein, as the reference correction amount for each color, said first memory stores a shift amount between an image of a first color and each of images of second and subsequent colors, which are printed on the reference printing paper sheets using the printing plates for respective colors, to which the image is exposed on the basis of image data and image position data obtained from an image size and the number of pixels in the image. An apparatus according to claim 4, wherein, as the unique correction amount, said second memory stores a shift amount between an image of a first color and each of images of second and subsequent colors, which are printed on all printing paper sheets to be used, using the printing plates for respective colors, to which the image is exposed on the basis of image data and image position data obtained from an image size and the number of pixels in the image. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said adjustment means adjusts, as the image exposure position, an image exposure start position and a pixel interval. An apparatus according to claim 7, wherein said adjustment means adjusts, as the image exposure position, the image exposure start position in an X-axis direction and pixel intervals in the X- and Y-axis directions. An image exposure control apparatus characterized by comprising:  <seperator>EP-1686824-A1<id_sep>classH04class subclassH04Wsubclass sectionHsection groupH04W12slash00group subgroupH04L12slash28subgroup subgroupH04W12slash06subgroup subgroupH04W84slash02subgroup subclassH04Lsubclass subgroupH04W84slash12subgroup Attaching at least one of an algorithm and secret information specification to a field for storing random numbers for usage in an authentication calculation in a SIM card According to the present invention, a subscriber identity module in a wireless local area network is authenticated using an authentication vector with no decrease in the confidentiality of the calculation processing, even when a triplet is employed as the authentication vector. An HLR of a mobile communication network comprises an attachment unit for attaching to a RAND field of an authentication vector, which is used to authenticate an SIM in a wireless local area network, information specifying calculation information that is constituted by at least one of an algorithm and secret information for use in the authentication calculation. The SIM, which is mounted on a wireless LAN terminal, comprises a calculation information storage unit storing in advance a plurality of the calculation information, a specification unit for specifying the calculation information to be used in the calculation from the plurality of calculation information stored in the calculation information storage unit by referring to information specifying the calculation information, and a calculation unit for performing the calculation on the basis of the specified calculation information.  BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Field of the Invention The present invention relates to an authentication vector generation device, a subscriber identity module, a wireless communication system, an authentication vector generation method, a calculation method, and a subscriber authentication method. Related Background of the Invention In IMT-2000 (International Mobile Telecommunication 2000), which is a third generation mobile communication system, and GSM (Global System for Mobile Communications), which is a second generation mobile communication system that is compatible with IMT-2000, authentication has been standardized in the following manner. A subscriber identity module (USIM: Universal Subscriber Identity Module, or SIM: Subscriber Identity Module), issued by a network operator, a service provider or the like to which a subscriber of a mobile communication network is contracted, is mounted on subscriber side terminal equipment (ME: Mobile Equipment, for example a mobile telephone, cellular phone or other wireless terminal), thereby realizing mutual authentication between the mobile communication network (to be referred to as the "home network" hereafter) that is serviced by the network operator, a service provider or the like to which the subscriber is contracted, and the subscriber identity module of the home network, during outgoing-call, incoming-call, and so on. In IMT-2000 and GSM, the mobile communication network comprises the following network nodes for performing authentication: an authentication vector generation device (HLR: Home Location Register) for generating an authentication vector (AV) used to authenticate the subscriber identity module, and an authentication device (VLR: Visitor Location Register) for performing authentication processing with the subscriber identity module. In IMT-2000 and GSM, subscriber identity module authentication processing is performed in the following manner. First, an authentication device transmits to the subscriber identity module predetermined data included in an authentication vector generated by the authentication vector generation device. A calculation is then performed in the subscriber identity module using the predetermined data. The calculation result is transmitted to the authentication device, and verified in the authentication device using the predetermined data included in the authentication vector. This is described in "3GPP TS 33. 102 V3. 13. 0 (2002-12): "3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP); Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects; 3G Security; Security Architecture (Release 1999)""(Non-patent Document 1), for example. In IMT-2000 and GSM, authentication using the authentication vector described above has been standardized for use in a wireless local area network (LAN) connected to the mobile communication network produced by IMT-2000 and GSM. This is described in "3GPP TS 23. 234 V6. 0. 0 (2004-03): "3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects; 3GPP System to Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN) interworking; System description (Release 6)""(Non-patent Document 2), for example. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION In the specification described the above Non-patent Document 1, there are two types of authentication vector, namely a quintet and a triplet. The quintet comprises five fields: RAND, XRES, CK, IK, and AUTN. The above specification cites an example in which the AUTN field includes information specifying an algorithm, selected from a plurality of algorithms stored in the subscriber identity module, for use in the authentication calculation. In the subscriber identity module, the algorithm to be used in the authentication calculation is specified from among the plurality of algorithms on the basis of this information, whereupon the calculation is performed. As a result, the confidentiality of the calculation processing is increased, enabling highly secure authentication. Further, using a similar method to that described above, in which information specifying an algorithm is included in the AUTN field, secret information for use in the calculation may also be specified from among a plurality of information in the subscriber identity module with the aim of improving the confidentiality of the calculation processing and the security of the authentication. An authentication vector generation device comprising:  A subscriber identity module mounted on subscriber side terminal equipment that is capable of connecting to a wireless local area network, comprising:  A wireless communication system constituted by an authentication vector generation device and a subscriber identity module mounted on subscriber side terminal equipment which is capable of connecting to a wireless local area network, wherein said authentication vector generation device comprises:  An authentication vector generation method in an authentication vector generation device, comprising the steps of:  A calculation method in a subscriber identity module which is mounted on subscriber side terminal equipment that is capable of connecting to a wireless local area network, and which stores in advance a plurality of calculation information constituted by at least one of an algorithm and secret information to be used in a calculation to authenticate said subscriber identity module, said calculation method comprising the steps of:  A subscriber authentication method in a wireless communication system comprising an authentication vector generation device, and a subscriber identity module mounted on subscriber side terminal equipment that is capable of connecting to a wireless local area network, said subscriber identity module storing in advance a plurality of calculation information that is constituted by at least one of an algorithm and secret information used in a calculation to authenticate said subscriber identity module, wherein, in said authentication vector generation device, said subscriber authentication method comprises the steps of:  <seperator>EP-1231669-A1<id_sep>subclassH01Qsubclass sectionHsection classH01class subgroupH01Q13slash26subgroup subgroupH01Q13slash20subgroup subgroupH01Q1slash36subgroup subgroupH01Q1slash24subgroup subgroupH01Q1slash38subgroup subgroupH01Q1slash22subgroup Antenna apparatus An antenna apparatus comprises a substrate (10), a chip antenna (12) mounted on the substrate (10), and a ground pattern (18) disposed on the substrate, at least a portion on the side of a power supply terminal (26) of an antenna conductor (22) in the chip antenna (12) being overlapped with the ground pattern.  The present invention relates to an antenna apparatus used for small sized communication equipment such as a mobile phone. Conventionally, to downsize a mobile phone or the like, an antenna apparatus mounting a surface mount type chip antenna on a printed circuit board is known. In order to downsize the communication equipment, it is necessary to downsize the chip antenna as small as possible. However, there is a problem that, a bandwidth of an antenna is narrowed by downsizing the chip antenna. It is an object of the present invention to provide an antenna apparatus whose size is smaller and whose bandwidth is wide. An antenna apparatus according to the present invention is characterized by comprising: a substrate; a chip antenna mounted on the substrate; and a ground pattern disposed on the substrate, at least a portion on the side of a power supply terminal of an antenna conductor in the chip antenna being overlapped with the ground pattern. With such a configuration, the size of the substrate can be reduced by the overlapped size of the chip antenna and the ground pattern side, and the matching of the chip antenna and power supply line can be easily obtained. This summary of the invention does not necessarily describe all necessary features so that the invention may also be a sub-combination of these described features. The invention can be more fully understood from the following detailed description when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which: Hereinafter, embodiments of the present invention will be described in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings. FIG. 1A and FIG. 1B are views each showing an antenna apparatus according to a first embodiment of the present invention. The antenna apparatus according to the first embodiment mounts a chip antenna 12 having a meander antenna conductor 22 on the surface or inside of a dielectric chip 20 on a printed circuit board 10 having a ground pattern on one surface of an insulation substrate 16. In the first embodiment, the meander antenna conductor 22 comprises a dense portion 22a in meander pitches and a coarse portion 22b in meander pitches. The dense portion 22a in meander pitches is formed on the side of a power supply terminal 26, and a coarse portion 22b in meander pitches is formed at a tip side. In addition, the dense portion 22a in meander pitches and the coarse portion 22b in meander pitches are formed, respectively, so that meander is repeated a plurality of times. Further, in the first embodiment, the chip antenna 12 is mounted so that part or all of the dense portion 22a in meander pitches is overlapped with the ground pattern 18, and a tip side portion (at least coarse portion 22b in meander pitches) therefrom is protruded from an end part of the ground pattern 18. In the above described configuration, the matching between the chip antenna 12 and a coaxial power supply line 14 can be easily achieved by adjusting the size B such that the chip antenna 12 is overlapped with the ground pattern 18, and the VSWR (voltage stationary wave ratio) can be lowered. In the conventional configuration, it is necessary to consider the shape of an antenna conductor or a position of a power supply terminal section in order to lower the VSWR. In addition, there is a problem that the bandwidth is narrowed, if the antenna device is designed to lower the VSWR. An antenna apparatus characterized by comprising:  An antenna apparatus according to claim 1, characterized in that    the chip antenna (12) has a meander antenna conductor (22);    the meander antenna conductor 22 comprises a dense portion (22a) in meander pitches and a coarse portion (22b) in meander pitches; and    part or all of the dense portion (22a) in meander pitches is mounted on the substrate to overlap the ground pattern (18). An antenna apparatus comprising a chip antenna (12), characterized in that an antenna conductor (22) has a meander shape or helical shape, and said antenna conductor has a dense portion (22a) and a coarse portion (22b) in meander pitches or helical pitches. An antenna apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 3, characterized in that a dense portion in meander pitches or helical pitches are provided on a power supply terminal side of the antenna conductor, and a coarse portion is provided at a tip side of the antenna conductor. An antenna apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 4, characterized in that a number of turns at a dense portion in meander pitches or helical pitches is larger than a number of turns at a coarse portion. An antenna apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 5, characterized by further comprising an antenna mount pad (32) disposed at a position distant from an edge of a ground pattern (18) on a substrate (10), wherein    said chip antenna (12) is mounted to direct one side having a power supply terminal (26) to a side of the ground pattern (18), and to overlap the other side thereof with the pad (32), and    a width (W) of the pad (32) is twice or less of a size in the meander width direction of the meander antenna conductor (22). An antenna apparatus according to claim 6, characterized in that a width (W) of the pad (32) is 0.5 to 1.75 times of a size in the meander width direction of the meander antenna conductor (22). <seperator>EP-1677005-A1<id_sep>subclassF16Hsubclass groupF03D9slash00group subgroupF03D11slash04subgroup subgroupF16C19slash22subgroup subclassF16Csubclass subgroupF16H1slash28subgroup sectionFsection subgroupF16C19slash38subgroup subgroupF16C35slash067subgroup subclassF03Dsubclass classF16class subgroupF16C33slash58subgroup groupF03D11slash00group subgroupF03D11slash02subgroup classF03class subgroupF16C35slash04subgroup WIND WHEEL FOR WIND POWER GENERATION Provided is a power generating wind turbine in which parts and compoments installed in or on a nacelle are made smaller and lighter and maintenance is facilitated. A main shaft 11, a gear-box speeding up rotation of the main shaft 11 and a generator 13 driven by output of the gear-box 11 are provided on a nacelle bed plate 6. The main shaft 11 is connected to an input shaft 12a end of the gear-box 12 via a double-row tapered roller bearing 16. The main shaft 11 is supported to be fitted to a wall portion W1 of the nacelle bed plate 6 with the double-row tapered roller bearing 16 being interposed therebetween. The main shaft 11 is formed in an annular shape having its outer diameter D 1 made larger than its axial directional length L1. The present invention relates to a power generating wind turbine. A power generating wind turbine comprises a nacelle installed on a tower, a wind turbine rotating blade, a gear-box inputted with a wind force received by the wind turbine rotating blade via a main shaft and a generator driven by an output of the gear-box. Such power generating wind turbine is known, for example, by Patent Documents 1 to 3 as mentioned below. In the Patent Document 1, for example, a power generating wind turbine is disclosed having a structure in which a rotor provided with a wind turbine rotating blade is directly installed on a planetary carrier of a gear-box to be supported to the gear-box. Also, in the Patent Document 2, a power generating wind turbine is disclosed having a structure in which a rotor hub is directly installed on a planetary holder to be supported to a gear-box. Further, in the Patent Document 3, a power generating wind turbine is disclosed having a structure in which a rotor is assembled into a gear-box to be supported to the gear-box. An annular gear carrier and an annular gear of the gear-box are directly fitted to this rotor so that the rotor itself constitutes a portion of the gear-box. In the prior art power generating wind turbines, however, there are shortcomings as follows: That is, the construction is made such that the wind turbine rotating blade and the rotor are supported to the gear-box and hence the gear-box and the gear-box supporting members are required to have a sufficient strength to withstand a load added to the rotor, such as a radial load, thrust load and bending load. The size of the gear-box is decided depending not only on its speed-up ratio but also on its strength required. That is, even if a speed-up ratio is the same, a gear-box for which a higher strength is required is inevitably made larger to that extent. For this reason, the power generating wind turbines disclosed in the Patent Documents 1 to 3 need to be provided with a large size gear-box. Such large size gear-box has a heavy weight and hence the load adding to the gear-box, nacelle and tower supporting the nacelle becomes also large. Thus, these parts and components are required to have a higher strength and this invites a large size and heavy weight of these parts and components. In the prior art power generating wind turbine, therefore, there are problems not only in the manufacturing cost but also in the transportation and installation work of each of the constructional parts and components, such as the gear-box, nacelle, tower or the like. Moreover, by using such large size gear-box, a space in the nacelle becomes narrower and the freedom of structure of the nacelle and the freedom of arrangement of the parts and components installed in the nacelle become smaller so that the design becomes difficult. Also, in such construction of the rotor being supported to the gear-box, if the gear-box is to be overhauled for maintenance, the rotor must be once taken out of the gear-box and placed on the ground. Thus, the maintenance work becomes very troublesome. A power generating wind turbine comprising a nacelle installed on a tower, said nacelle comprising therein or thereon a main shaft to which a wind turbine rotating blade is fitted, a gear-box by which a rotation of said main shaft is speeded up to be put out and a generator driven by an output of said gear-box,  A power generating wind turbine comprising a nacelle installed on a tower, said nacelle comprising therein or thereon a main shaft to which a wind turbine rotating blade is fitted, a gear-box by which a rotation of said main shaft is speeded up to be put out and a generator driven by an output of said gear-box,  A power generating wind turbine as claimed in Claim 1 or 2,  A power generating wind turbine as claimed in Claim 1 or 2,  A power generating wind turbine as claimed in Claim 3,  <seperator>EP-1847948-A2<id_sep>subgroupG06F12slash06subgroup sectionGsection subgroupG06K19slash077subgroup groupG06F12slash00group classG06class subclassG06Fsubclass subclassG06Ksubclass groupG06K17slash00group subclassG11Csubclass groupG06K19slash00group groupG11C5slash00group subgroupG06F3slash08subgroup subgroupG06K19slash07subgroup classG11class Data memory This invention provides a memory card (1) that is to be used as a storage medium in a host apparatus that can record and reproduce data. The memory card has a first memory (12-1), a second memory (12-2), a first switch (13) for changing over one memory to the other, and a second switch (14) for connecting and disconnecting an insertion/removal detecting terminal INS. The first and second switches work as a slide switch (6) provided on the housing is operated. The first switch has a contact for selecting the first memory, a contact for selecting the second memory, and a contact located between these two contacts, for selecting neither memory. The second switch connects the terminal INS to the ground while the first switch remains connected to the contact for selecting the first memory or the contact for selecting the second memory. The second switch opens the terminal INS while the first switch remains connected to the contact for selecting neither memory.  The present invention relates to a removable data storage apparatus to be removably inserted into a host apparatus that can record and reproduce data. More particularly, the invention relates to a memory card and a memory card system for recording data in memory cards. This application is based upon and claims the benefit of priority from Removable small IC memories, called "memory cards," are known, each to be removably inserted into a data-recording and/or reproducing apparatus and used as a data storage medium that has a NAND-type flash memory. Such an IC memory is disclosed in Jpn. Pat. Appln. Laid-Open Publication No. 10-340575. The memory card disclosed in this publication can store various types of digital data, such as still-picture data, moving-picture data, audio data and music data. It is used as an external storage medium in host apparatuses such as mobile information terminals, desktop computers, notebook computers, mobile telephones, audio apparatuses, household appliance and the like. In recent years, the development of NAND-type flash memories has progressed, rapidly increasing the storage capacity of the flash memory of this type. Hence, the storage capacity of each memory card incorporating the NAND-type flash memory has proportionally increased. The memory card has its storage capacity limited in accordance with the file system employed for it. If the memory card incorporates a flash memory that has a storage capacity larger than its storage capacity thus limited, part of the storage capacity of the flash memory will be wasted. To use the flash memory to its full storage capacity, the memory card needs to use a new file system. To use a memory card for which a new file system is used, the host apparatus must have its operation system changed, in most cases. A complex process needs to be performed to change the operation system of the host apparatus. This requires much labor and high cost. If a memory card is to be provided, which has a storage capacity exceeding the capacity manageable by the conventional file system, it should be used in a host apparatus, without the necessity of changing the operating system of the host apparatus. In managing the data recorded in a memory card, it may be convenient in some cases if the storage area of the memory card is divided into several regions and if each storage region is recognized as an independent device. For example, it is very convenient for the user if his work-related information and his private information are stored in two different devices (two storage regions), respectively. As a memory card thus devised, there is known a switch-changeover memory card incorporating a plurality of flash memories that can be switched from one to another by operating an external changeover switch. Jpn. Pat. Appln. Laid-Open Publication No. Assume that the conventional switch-changeover memory card has been incorporated into the host apparatus. Then, the host apparatus cannot recognize the devices (i.e., the storage regions of the switch-changeover memory card) when the external switch is operated. In the worst case, the data stored is destroyed. A memory card to be removably attached to a host apparatus, comprising:  <seperator>EP-1707661-A2<id_sep>subgroupD06F37slash30subgroup sectionDsection subgroupD06F37slash20subgroup subclassD06Fsubclass classD06class Drum type washing machine Drum type washing machine including a tub of plastic having a wall for holding washing water therein and mounting a driving part thereon, a drum rotatably arranged inside of the tub, a shaft passed through the tub and connected to the drum for transmission of a driving power from a motor to the drum, at least one bearing for supporting the shaft, a bearing housing having a bearing supporting part formed as a sleeve, and a stator fastening part extended in a radial direction from the bearing supporting part, wherein both of the bearing supporting part and the stator fastening part are inserted in a tub rear wall, while stator fastening holes in the stator fastening part are exposed, a rotor engaged to a rear end part of the shaft to form the motor together with the stator, and the stator mounted on the stator fastening part of the bearing housing with fastening members on an inner side of the rotor to form the motor together with the rotor, wherein the stator includes an annular helical type core having multiple layers formed by winding a steel plate having tooth portions and a base part in a helix starting from a bottom layer to a top layer, an insulator having the helical type core encapsulated therein, a coil wound on the tooth portions, and fastening parts formed as a unit with the insulator, having fastening holes projected toward an inside of the helical type core for fastening the stator to the bearing housing, thereby reducing a weight of required material, simplifying an assembly process, and assure stable mounting of the stator on the tub.  The present invention relates to drum type washing machines, and more particularly, to an improved structure of a driving part of a direct drive type drum type washing machine which employs an outer rotor type brushless DC motor. In general, a drum type washing washes laundry by using a friction force between a drum rotated by a driving power of a motor and the laundry in a detergent with washing water. The laundry is introduced into the drum, and is washed with little damage, and little entangling. The action has pounding, and rubbing washing effects. In a prior drum type washing machines, there are an indirect drive type in which the driving power of the motor is transmitted to the drum through a belt wound on a motor pulley and a drum pulley indirectly, and a direct drive type in which the brushless DC motor is connected to the drum directly, to transmit the driving power of the motor to the drum, directly. Machines in which the driving power of the motor is transmitted to the drum, not directly, but indirectly using a motor pulley and a drum pulley, lose energy loss and create noise in the course of power transmission. Hence, there is a trend increasingly to use direct drive type drum type washing machines with brushless d.c. motors, as these address the problems of the indirect drive type drum type washing machines. A prior direct drive type drum type washing machine will be described with reference to FIG. 1, briefly. FIG. 1 illustrates a longitudinal section of a related art drum type washing machine. Referring to FIG. 1, a prior drum type washing machine is provided with a tub 2 mounted inside of a cabinet 1, and a drum 3 rotatably mounted centrally inside the tub 2. There is a motor in rear of the tub 2, wherein a stator 6 is fixed to a rear wall of the tub, and a rotor 5 surrounds the stator 6, and is connected to the drum 3 with a shaft passed through the tub. There is also a metallic tub supporter between a tub rear wall and the stator having a shape almost the same with an outer shape of the tub rear wall. The supporter is fixed to the tub rear wall in fastening the stator for supporting a load of the stator, and maintaining concentricity of the stator. A door 21 is mounted on a front part of the cabinet 1, and a gasket 22 is disposed between the door 21 and the tub 2. A hanging spring 23 is disposed between an inside surface of an upper part of the cabinet 1, and an upper part of an outside circumferential surface of the tub 2, and a friction damper 24 is disposed between the inside surface of a lower part of the cabinet 1, and a lower part of the outside circumferential surface of the tub 2. FIG. 2 illustrates a perspective outside view of the stator in FIG. 1, and FIG. 3 illustrates a perspective view of a sectional type core SC applied to the stator in FIG. 2. A washing machine comprising:  The washing machine of claim 1, wherein the projected height of the circumferential rib formed on the upper surface and the projected height of the circumferential rib formed on the lower surface are overlapped. The washing machine of claim 1 or 2, wherein the portion in which the projected end of the circumferential rib and the inner surface of recessing part are in close contact is roundly formed. The washing machine of any preceding claim, wherein the edges of the upper surface and lower surface of the flange part are rounded. The washing machine of any of claims 2 to 4, wherein the height of the circumferential rib formed on the upper surface of the flange part is the same as the height of the circumferential rib formed on the lower surface of the flange part. The washing machine of any of claims 2 to 5, wherein the height of the circumferential rib formed on the upper surface of the flange part is different from the height of the circumferential rib formed on the lower surface of the flange part The washing machine of any preceding claim, wherein the circumferential rib has fastening bosses each with the stator fastening hole formed therein. A tub of a washing machine manufactured by injection with a bearing housing inserted in a mold thereof, wherein the bearing housing comprises:  <seperator>EP-1298598-A2<id_sep>sectionGsection subclassG07Dsubclass groupG07D7slash00group subgroupG07D7slash12subgroup classG07class Procedure for analysing the visible clouding of safety paper and device for the performance thereof The paper to be analysed is made to pass through an acquisition unit (2), on a platform (5) thereof, from an entrance (6) to an exit (7), conveniently directed by a guide (8) and drawn by a traction motor (10) with the collaboration of photocells (9-9') which detect the entrance and the exit of the paper, specifically making it pass through an emitter-receiver combination (12), in which the light beam is modulated by the nonuniformity in the thickness of the paper, variations in the modulation of light which are converted into voltage variations to be applied to a processing and display unit in which participates a data acquisition card and a computer, where the signal is converted into digital form and wherein the processing thereof is carried out to extract the parameters which will characterise the cloudiness of the paper sample.  OBJECT OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to a new procedure for analysing the visible appearance presented by security paper, like paper for currency for example, after being fabricated and before being printed, an appearance very similar to that of a cloudy sky, whereby internationally this visible property is termed "cloudiness", which term will be employed throughout the present description. The measurement of this visible characteristic is of supreme importance since the cloudiness of the substratum alters several characteristics of the final document. The invention also concerns the procedure for the performance of said method. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Many different solutions are known for measuring or determining the translucency of a document to determine the cloudiness or visible appearance which a paper sample has, or to characterise them in some other way. In this sense mention can be made of those, among others, to be found in the Patents US P/N 4,630,845 for "AUTHENTICATION DOCUMENT SYSTEM" and EP 0268450 for "METHOD AND SYSTEM OF AUTHENTICATION", which describe systems of document authentication based on the translucency of a document. However, in these documents said translucency is measured only in a certain area of a document in order to so characterise it and authenticate it, the information being recorded in a visible magnetic mark which the document itself incorporates and which is where the information is stored which will later be compared with a certain master. DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION The method which the invention discloses allows the visible appearance which the paper presents to be analysed, that is, the cloudiness, after being fabricated and before being printed, to establish any type of valuation in this respect. For this and more specifically, in said procedure the following operational phases are defined: The device for the performance of said method consists of an electro-mechanical acquisition unit, and of a control computer which runs a software program exclusively developed for this purpose. The electromechanical acquisition unit includes a casing through which the paper is guided by means of a traction motor, photocells for the detection of the position of the paper during its passage, and guides for a correct centring and displacement thereof. Also, this electro-mechanical unit includes the corresponding adjustment systems, both of the speed of the traction motor, and of the sensitivity of the emitter-receiver pair. The adjustment unit serves for controlling the speed of the aforementioned paper traction motor, as well as for adjusting the symmetry and sensitivity levels of the emitter-receiver pair. The processing unit converts the analogue voltage signal coming from the detector of the acquisition unit into a digital signal by means of the corresponding acquisition card connected to the computer, wherein the aforementioned computer program will deduce the parameters which characterise the cloudiness quantitatively. DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS To complete the description being made and with the object of assisting in a better understanding of the characteristics of the invention, according to a preferred example of practical embodiment thereof, said description is accompanied by, as an integral part thereof, a set of drawings wherein, by way of illustration and not restrictively, the following has been represented: Procedure for analysing the visible cloudiness of security paper, the object of which being to extract information concerning the uniformity of the paper with reference to level of opacity or cloudiness, is characterised in that therein the following operational phases are established:  Procedure according to claim 1, characterised in that the working frequency at which the emitter and receiver elements operate belongs in the near infrared, that is, at a wavelength of between 870 and 980 nanometres. Device for the performance of the procedure of the previous claims, characterised in that therein form part an acquisition unit (2), a control and adjustment unit (3) and a processing and display unit (4) which comprises the aforementioned acquisition card and a computer. Device, according to claim 3, characterised in that the acquisition unit (2), of electromechanical nature, incorporates a casing in which a upper platform (5) is established, for displacement of the paper (1) to be analysed from an entrance (6) to an exit (7), platform (5) assisted by a guide (8) for positioning of the paper and on which an emitter-receiver (12) is mounted, assisted by a fibre optic support (13), said unit also incorporating a traction motor (10) for the paper, controlled by an entrance photocell (9) and at least one exit photocell (9'), as well as with the control and adjustment unit (3), having to such an end a connector (14) for connection of the units of acquisition (2) and of control and adjustment (3). Device according to claim 3, characterised in that the adjustment unit (3), serving to control the speed of the traction motor (10) of the paper, as well as to adjust the symmetry and sensitivity levels of the emitter-receiver combination (12), incorporates an electronic filter which supplies the appropriate signal to the computer of the processing unit (4), for subsequent processing and display thereof. Device according to claim 3, characterised in that the processing unit (4) receives the analogue voltage signal coming from the detector (12) of the acquisition unit and converts it into digital form by means of the acquisition card, stores it in memory and the computer carries out the necessary processing to extract the parameters which will characterise the cloudiness of the paper sample (1). <seperator>EP-1749455-A1<id_sep>classA43class subgroupA43B7slash12subgroup groupA43B7slash00group subclassA43Bsubclass subgroupA43B7slash10subgroup sectionAsection Breathable and waterproof shoe A breathable and impermeable shoe, suitable for use by men, women, and children, preferably for sport use, characterized by the incorporation of a first breathable and impermeable base (2) made of an elastomer (8), a base especially adapted for insertion into the shoe sole, and/or a second breathable and impermeable base (3) made of an elastomer, a base especially adapted for insertion in the shoe upper, preferably in the side panels, providing greater comfort and hygiene to the user. These bases (2,3) comprise a membrane (7) injected over elastomers (8) or derivatives thereof, giving them the rigidity required for their use, which upon being inserted into the appropriate openings and attached in place with contact glue or sewn around their entire perimeter, will permit optimal breathing. The invention presented above provides the user a high degree of comfort as a result of the high level of impermeability and breathability, thereby assisting his rapid action in terms of the foot movements during walking.  A breathable and impermeable shoe, suitable for use by men, women, and children, preferably as a sports shoe, characterized by the incorporation of a breathable and impermeable base especially adapted for insertion into the shoe's sole, and/or a breathable and impermeable base especially adapted for insertion into the shoe's body, preferably in the side panels, to provide greater comfort and hygiene for the user. These bases comprise a membrane injected over elastomers or derivatives thereof, giving them the rigidity required for their use, which upon being inserted into the appropriate openings and attached in place with contact glue or sewn around their entire perimeter, will permit optimal breathing. Many and varied kinds of shoes with breathable insoles, made of a laminar body, are currently well known; they are made to be placed inside the shoe, over the sole, with the user's foot resting on them. They are manufactured with flexible and breathable materials, but have the disadvantage that, though they initially perform their function, they deteriorate and lose breathability very quickly and need to be replaced in a short time. With regard to sports shoes, we encounter the problem of breathability because, though materials conducive to the foot's comfort are currently in use, these materials cannot absorb the sweat generated by the physical effort involved in any sports activity; as a result, the shoe steadily deteriorates, and the perspiration produces unpleasant odors. Attempts have been made to solve the problem of shoe breathability by making a kind of shoe whose upper part, i.e., the tongue, has perforations or hemstitching on the leather or similar material, to permit breathing. But this has the disadvantage of increasing manufacturing costs and undermining the material's strength. We can also find other solutions, such as the Naturally, the purpose to make a vapor-permeable and breathable shoe is fully achieved, but with the disadvantage of high cost, since a large number of components must be brought together, which greatly increases the cost of production. To overcome the current problems and achieve effective breathability and low cost, we have created a breathable and impermeable shoe, the subject of this invention, characterized by the incorporation of a breathable and impermeable base especially adapted for insertion into the shoe's sole, and/or a breathable and impermeable device especially adapted for insertion into the shoe's body, preferably in the side panels. These bases include a membrane injected over elastomers or derivatives thereof, giving them the rigidity required for their use, which upon being inserted into the appropriate openings and attached in place with contact glue or sewn around their entire perimeter, will permit optimal breathing. This is a commercial membrane, used in another type of application, whose special characteristics make it a suitable component for use in this type of application for shoes. The membrane is a tissue which, by itself, provides the necessary properties to ensure an impermeable and breathable shoe. It is made of a long-lasting material based on microscopic polyethylene fibers and is light, offers high mechanical resistance, and is strong and durable. A breathable and impermeable shoe, suitable for use by men, women, and children, and preferably for sport use,  A breathable and impermeable shoe as indicated in claim 1,  A breathable and impermeable shoe as indicated in claim 2,  A breathable and impermeable shoe as indicated in claims 2 and 3,  A breathable and impermeable shoe as indicated in claims 2, 3, and 4,  A breathable and impermeable shoe as indicated in claim 1,  A breathable and impermeable shoe as indicated in claim 6,  A breathable and impermeable shoe as indicated in claims 6 and 7,  <seperator>EP-1416333-A1<id_sep>subgroupG03G15slash08subgroup sectionBsection sectionGsection subclassB65Dsubclass classB65class subgroupB65D83slash06subgroup classG03class subclassG03Gsubclass Remanufacturing method of a toner supply container A remanufacturing method for a developer supply container (12) detachably mountable to a main assembly of an image forming apparatus, the developer supply container (12) including a frame (12r), a developer accommodating portion (12x) for accommodating a developer to be used by a developing device of the image forming apparatus, a developer filling opening (12j) for filling the developer into the developer accommodating portion (12x), a capping member (12i) for closing the developer filling opening (12j), and a cap covering member (12q) covering the capping member (12i), the cap covering member (12q) being fixed by welding to the frame (12r), the remanufacturing method including a cap covering member dismounting step of dismounting the cap covering member (12q) from the frame (12r) by separating cap covering member (12q) from the frame (12r) at a welded portion; a capping member dismounting step of dismounting the capping member (12i) to open the developer filling opening (12j); a developer filling step of filling developer through the developer filling opening (12j); a capping member mounting step of closing the developer filling opening (12j) by a capping member (12i); a cap covering member mounting step of mounting the cap covering member (12q) to the frame (12r).  FIELD OF THE INVENTION AND RELATED ART The present invention relates to a method for remanufacturing a developer supply container removably mountable in the main assembly of an image forming apparatus. Toner in the form of a micro-particle has long been used as the developer for an electrophotographic image forming apparatus. Here, an electrophotographic image forming apparatus means an apparatus which forms an image on recording medium with the use of one of the electrophotographic image forming methods. As for examples of an electrophotographic image forming apparatus, there are an electrophotographic copying machine, an electrophotographic printer (laser beam printer, LED printer, etc.), a facsimileing machine, a word processor, etc. When the amount of the toner in the main assembly of an image forming apparatus has reduced to a critical level due to consumption, the main assembly is provided with toner with the use of a toner supply container. Toner is in the form of an extremely small particle, being therefore prone to scatter. Therefore, the following method has been known as one of the methods for supplying an image forming apparatus with toner while preventing toner from scattering. That is, a toner supply container is placed within the main assembly of an image forming apparatus, and toner is discharged little by little from the toner outlet, that is, a small hole with which the toner supply container is provided, to be delivered to the toner inlet of the toner destination. In the case of the above described type of toner supplying method, it is difficult for toner be automatically discharged by gravity alone. Therefore, some kind of a toner conveying means is necessary. In order to efficiently convey the toner in a toner supply container, it is desired that the toner supply container is provided with a toner stirring means in addition to a toner conveying means. As a toner supply container such as the one described above, there is the toner supply container disclosed in Japanese Laid-open Patent Application 11-073000, for example. Not only is this type of toner supplying method effective to supply toner by neither too much nor too little, but also to keep constant the amount of the toner in a developing apparatus. It is also effective to maintain the ratio between the toner and carrier at a predetermined level, when two-component developer is employed. Japanese Laid-open Patent Application 7-261524 discloses another structural arrangement for a toner supply container. According to this arrangement, a toner supply container is provided with a handle, which is used when mounting the container into the main assembly of a developing apparatus, or dismounting it therefrom. The handle is disposed in a manner to cover a capping member for keeping sealed the toner inlet of the container. It is provided with a claw or the like, which engages with the catch portion of the toner supply container. According to one of the'methods for remanufacturing such a toner supply container as the one described above, the handle which is covering the capping member is removed to access the capping member. A remanufacturing method for a developer supply container detachably mountable to a main assembly of an image forming apparatus, said developer supply container including a frame, a developer accommodating portion for accommodating a developer to be used by a developing device of the image forming apparatus, a developer filling opening for filling the developer into said developer accommodating portion, a capping member for closing said developer filling opening, and a cap covering member covering said capping member, said cap covering member being fixed by welding to said frame, said remanufacturing method comprising:  A method according to Claim 1, wherein the welded portion is prevented from being exposed externally by a sticker member, and in said cap covering member dismounting step the welded portion is removed after the welded portion is exposed by removing the sticker member. A method according to Claim 1, further comprising a cleaning step of cleaning said developer accommodating portion between said capping member dismounting step and said developer filling step. A method according to Claim 1, wherein said frame is provided with developer supply opening for supplying the developer into the developing device from said developer accommodating portion, and said remanufacturing method further comprising a supply opening sealing step for sealing said developer supply opening between said capping member dismounting step and said developer filling step. A method according to Claim 1, wherein in said capping member mounting step, said cap covering member is mounted using at least one of adhesive material, adhesive member and fastening member. A method according to Claim 1, wherein in said capping member mounting step, said cap covering member is provided with an indication permitting recognition of a color of the developer filled in said developer filling step. A method according to Claim 1, wherein said developer supply container is provided with a storing element having communicating means communicatable with communicating means provided in the main assembly of the apparatus, said remanufacturing method further comprising a storing element exchanging process of exchanging said storing element with a storing element storing different information. A method according to Claim 1, wherein said cap covering member is fixed to the frame by a heat crimping portion provided by welding a free end of a projection extended from said frame, and in a cap covering member dismounting step, the heat crimping portion is removed, and the cap covering member is dismounted from said frame, and in said cap covering member mounting step, said capping member is engaged with the projection from which the heat crimping portion is removed, so that cap covering member is mounted to said frame. A method according to Claim 8, wherein in said cap covering member dismounting step, said heat crimping portion is removed along a surface of said cap covering member. A method according to Claim 8, wherein in said cap covering member dismounting step the heat crimping portion is removed by an end mill cutter a cutter or a nipper. A method according to Claim 8, wherein in said cap covering member dismounting step a tool is inserted between said frame and said cap covering member and is moved in a cap covering member dismounting direction to remove said heat crimping portion. A method according to Claim 8 or 11, wherein in said cap covering member dismounting step, the heat crimping portion is heated, and said cap covering member is moved in a cap covering member dismounting direction. <seperator>EP-1366763-A1<id_sep>groupC07C49slash00group classC07class groupA61P37slash00group classA61class subgroupC07C43slash295subgroup subgroupC07C49slash84subgroup subgroupC07C47slash52subgroup groupA61P17slash00group groupA61P29slash00group sectionCsection subclassA61Psubclass subgroupA61P37slash08subgroup subgroupC07C47slash575subgroup subgroupA61P17slash16subgroup groupC07C43slash00group sectionAsection subclassC07Csubclass Hydroxy diphenyl ether compounds as anti-inflammatory agents Disclosed is the use of hydroxydiphenylether compounds of formula  The present invention relates to the use of hydroxydiphenylether compounds as pharmaceutical active agents and to pharmaceutical compositions containing them. The invention further relates to these compounds for the preparation of medicaments for the treatment of inflammatory and allergic conditions. It is standard practice to use glucocorticoids for the topical treatment of inflammatory and allergic conditions. It is common knowledge that these compounds can have unwanted side-effects. Owing to their insufficient ability to penetrate the skin, nonsteroidal antiinflammatory medicaments containing therapeutic agents such as ketoprofen, BW755c, piroxicam, diclofenac or indomethazin cannot effectively be applied topically, but only systemically (q.v. inter alia G.B. Kasting et al., Pharmacol. Skin., Vol.1, pp. 138-153, Karger, Basel 1987). It is the object of this invention to provide pharmaceutical compositions having pharmacologically useful properties, in particular antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and antiallergic properties, especially when administered locally. Surprisingly, it has been found that hydroxydiphenylether compounds of formula C C C Hydroxy substituted C Those compounds of formula (1) have proved particularly interesting in which Compounds of very particular interest are those of formula (1) wherein Compounds of very most particular interest are those of formula Furthermore, compounds of formula Furthermore, compounds of formula Most preferably are compounds of formula (1c), wherein Furthermore, compounds of formula Mostly preferred are compounds of formula (1d), wherein R Further hydroxydiphenylehter compounds, which can be used in the present invention, are listed in the following Table 1: The compounds of formula (1) are useful for the treatment of inflammatory and allergic conditions, as well as for the treatment of conditions involving disturbances of cell proliferation. In vitro assays show that the compounds of formula (1) inhibit the formation of different mediators that are an important factor in inflammation. The compounds of formula (1) take effect as radical inhibitor. They represent lipoxygenase/cyclooxigenase inhibitors, i.e. they can intervene in the inflammatory cascade. It can be shown that they take effect as anti-inflammatory agent for the UV induced erythema. They show anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effect comparable to vitamin E. A further subject of the present invention is a pharmaceutical composition comprising at least one compound of formula (1), together with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or adjuvant. The pharmaceutical compositions are preferably liquid, semisolid or solid preparations. Examples of liquid pharmaceutical compositions are injectable solutions, infusion solutions, drops, sprays, aerosols, emulsions, lotions, suspensions, drinking solutions, gargles and inhalants. Examples of semisolid pharmaceutical compositions are ointments, creams (O/W emulsions), rich creams (W/O emulsions), gels, lotions, foams, pastes, suspensions, ovula, plasters, including transdermal systems. Examples of solid pharmaceutical compositions are tablets, coated tablets, capsules, granules, effervescent granules, effervescent tablets, lozenges, sucking and chewing tablets, suppositories, implants, lyophilisates, adsorbates or powders. Galenic pharmaceutical compositions comprising the compounds of formula (1) will be understood as meaning in particular emulsions, ointments, gels, sprays and powders. Compounds of formula (1) may also be contained in liposomes or used in pharmacological compositions with conventional carriers and penetration enhancers, for example urea, dextrane, propylene glycol, oleic acid and the like. The pharmaceutical composition will usually contain the compounds of formula (1) in amounts of 0.001 to 10 % by weight, preferably of 0.1 to 5% by weight, of the total mixture. For the treatment of the conditions listed hereinabove, the pharmaceutical composition of this invention may contain, in addition to the compounds of formula (1), further pharmaceutical agents having antiphlogistic activity, typically including antiinflammatory agents, antipsoriatic agents, cell proliferation regulators, and antiallergic, gastroprotective and antiasthmatic agents.  wherein R1, R2 and R3,independently from each other are hydrogen; hydroxy; C1-C20alkyl; hydroxy-substituted C1-C20 alkyl; C5-C7cycloalkyl; C1-C20alkoxy; C1-C6alkylcarbonyl; phenyl; or phenyl-C1-C3alkyl;R4is hydrogen, C1-C20alkyl; hydroxy-substituted C1-C20alkyl; C5-C7cycloalkyl; hydroxy; formyl; acetonyl; allyl; carboxy; carboxy-C1-C3alkyl; carboxyallyl; C2-C20alkenyl; C1-C6alkyl-carbonyl; C1-C3alkylcarbonyl-C1-C3alkyl; phenyl; or phenyl-C1-C3alkyl; andR5is hydrogen; C1-C20alkoxy; or C1-C6alkylcarbonyl; for use as a therapeutic agent. A compound according to claim 1, wherein R1, R2 and R3,independently of each other, are hydrogen; C1-C20alkyl; hydroxy-substituted C1-C20alkyl; or C1-C20alkoxy;R4is hydrogen; C1-C20 alkyl; hydroxy-substituted C1-C20 alkyl; hydroxy; formyl; acetonyl; allyl; carboxymethyl; or carboxyallyl; andR5is hydrogen; C1 -C20alkoxy; or C1-C6alkylcarbonyl. A compound according to claim 1 or 2, wherein R1is C1-C16alkyl; andR2, R3 R4 and R5are hydrogen. A compound according to claim 1, which corresponds to formula  wherein R1 and R2independently of each other are hydrogen; C1-C20alkyl; or hydroxy-substituted C1-C20alky. A compound according to claim 1, which corresponds to formula are of particular interest, wherein R,is carboxy; carboxy-C1-C3alkyl; C1-C3alkylcarbonyl; or C1-C3alkylcarbonyl-C1-C3alkyl. A compound according to claim 1, which corresponds to formula  wherein R1, R2 and R3independently from each other are hydrogen; hydroxy; C1-C20alkyl; or hydroxy-substituted C1-C20alkyl; andR4is C1-C20alkyl; hydroxysubstituted C1-C20; Phenyl; Phenyl-C1-C3alkyl; or C1-C3alkylcarbonyl; A compound according to claim 6, wherein R1, R2 and R3 are hydrogen; or C1-C20alkyl. A compound according to claim 6 or 7, wherein R1, R2 and R3are hydrogen; andR4is C1 -C20alkyl; phenyl-C1-C3alkyl; or C1-C6alkylcarbonyl. A compound according to claim 1, which corresponds to formula     wherein R1,R2, and R3,independently from each other are hydrogen; C1-C20alkyl; hydroxy-substituted C1-C20alkyl; cyclo-C5-C7alkyl; phenyl-C1-C3alkyl. A compound according to claim 9, wherein R1 and R2,independently of each other are C1-C20alkyl; andR3is hydrogen. A pharmaceutical composition comprising at least one compound as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 10, together with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or adjuvant. A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 11, wherein the compound of formula (1) is present in amounts of 0.001 to 10% by weight, of the total mixture. A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 11 or 12, which additionally comprises at least one substance having antiphlogistic action. Use of a pharmaceutical composition according to one of claims 11,12 or 13 for the local treatment of inflammatory and allergic conditions. Use of a compound according to any one of claims 1 to 10 for the preparation of a medicament for the treatment of radical-induced skin damage and inflammatory and allergic conditions, as well as for the treatment of conditions involving disturbances of cell proliferation. <seperator>EP-1357154-A1<id_sep>sectionHsection classH01class subgroupH01L21slash02subgroup subclassH01Lsubclass subgroupH01L21slash368subgroup subclassC09Dsubclass subgroupC01B33slash029subgroup classC01class subgroupH01L21slash208subgroup subgroupC09D183slash16subgroup groupC01B33slash00group subclassC01Bsubclass subgroupC01B33slash04subgroup classC09class groupC08G77slash00group subgroupC08G77slash60subgroup sectionCsection subclassC08Gsubclass classC08class High order silane composition, and method of forming silicon film using the composition It is an object of the present invention to provide a high order silane composition that contains a polysilane having a higher molecular weight than conventionally, this being from the viewpoints of wettability when applying onto a substrate, boiling point and safety, and hence in particular enables a high-quality silicon film to be formed easily, and also a method of forming an excellent silicon film using the composition. The present invention attains this object by providing a high order silane composition containing a polysilane obtained through photopolymerization by irradiating a solution of a photopolymerizable silane or a photopolymerizable like-liquid silane with ultraviolet light. Moreover, the present invention provides a method of forming a silicon film comprising the step of applying such a high order silane composition onto a substrate. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Field of the Invention The present invention relates to a high order silane composition arid a method of forming a silicon film that can be used in particular with integrated circuits, thin film transistors, photoelectric converters, photoreceptors, and so on. Specifically, the present invention relates to a high order silane composition that in particular enables a high-quality silicon film to be formed easily, and a method of forming an excellent silicon film using the composition. Description of the Related Art Patterning of silicon thin films (amorphous silicon films, polysilicon films, etc.) used with integrated circuits, thin film transistors, and so on is generally carried out through a process in which a silicon film is formed over the whole surface by a vacuum process such as CVD (chemical vapor deposition), and then unwanted parts are removed by photolithography. However, with this method, there are problems such as a large apparatus being required, the efficiency of usage of the raw material being poor, the raw material being difficult to handle due to being a gas, and a large amount of waste being generated. Japanese Patent Application Laid-open No. 1-29661 discloses a method in which a gaseous raw material is liquefied and attached on a cooled substrate, and is then reacted with chemically active atomic hydrogen, thus forming a silicon-based thin film. However, there is a problem in that the raw material silane is continuously vaporized and cooled, and hence a complicated apparatus is required, and moreover it is difficult to control the film thickness. Moreover, Japanese Patent Application Laid-open No . 5-144741 and Japanese Patent Application Laid-open No. 7-267621 disclose methods in which a liquid silane is applied onto a substrate, and then a silicon film is produced through heating or UV irradiation. However, with these methods, a low-molecular-weight material is used, and hence the system is unstable and handling is problematic. Moreover, with these methods, the wettability to the substrate of the solution used is poor, arid hence the application onto the substrate is intrinsically difficult, and moreover the boiling point is low due to the molecular weight being low, and hence during the heating evaporation occurs more quickly than formation of the silicon film, and thus it is extremely difficult to obtain the desired film. That is, how high the molecular weight is (i.e. how good the wettability is, how high the boiling point is, and how good the safety is) of the polysilane (high order silane) used as a material is an important point with regard to film formation. As a method of resolving the above problem, Japanese Patent Application Laid-open No. 10-321536 suggests a method in which the wettability of solution of a polysilane is improved by subjecting a mixture of the solution and a catalyst to thermal decomposition or photodecomposition as treatment before the application. With this method, it is necessary to mix a catalyst such as nickel into the solution, and hence there is a drawback that the properties of the silicon film are markedly degraded. A high order silane composition, containing a polysilane obtained through photopolymerization by irradiating a photopolymerizable like-liquid silane with ultraviolet light. A high order silane composition, containing a polysilane obtained through photopolymerization by irradiating a solution of a photopolymerizable silane with ultraviolet light. The high order silane composition according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the boiling point of said polysilane at normal pressure is higher than the decomposition point thereof. The high order silane composition according to claim 3, wherein said high order silane composition contains a solvent, and the boiling point of said solvent is lower than the decomposition point of said polysilane. The high order silane composition according to claim 2, wherein said ultraviolet light has a wavelength such as not to decompose the solvent used in the solution of said photopolymerizable silane. The high order silane composition according to claim 1 or 2, wherein said ultraviolet light has a wavelength of at least 250nm. The high order silane composition according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the irradiation time of said ultraviolet light is in a range of 0.1 seconds to 120 minutes. The high order silane composition according to claim 1 or 2, wherein said photopolymerizable silane has at least one cyclic structure in the molecule thereof. The high order silane composition according to claim 1 or 2, wherein said photopolymerizable silane is represented by the general formula SinX2n, wherein each X independently represents a hydrogen atom or a halogen atom, and n is an integer greater than or equal to 3. The high order silane composition according to claim 1 or 2, further having a substance containing a group 3B element of the periodic table or a substance containing a group 5B element of the periodic table added thereto after irradiating with said ultraviolet light. The high order silane composition according to claim 1 or 2, wherein a substance containing a group 3B element of the periodic table or a substance containing a group 5B element of the periodic table is added to the solution of said photopolymerizable silane before irradiating with said ultraviolet light. The high order silane composition according to claim 1 or 2, being for forming a silicon film. A method of forming a silicon film, comprising the step of applying the high order silane composition according to claim 1 or 2 onto a substrate. The method of forming a silicon film according to claim 13, wherein after applying said high order silane composition onto the substrate, at least one of heat treatment and light treatment is carried out. The method of forming a silicon film according to claim 13, wherein a composition containing a solvent is used as said high order silane composition, and after applying said composition onto the substrate, said solvent only is selectively removed, and then at least one of heat treatment and light treatment is carried out. <seperator>EP-1273328-A2<id_sep>classA63class sectionAsection subgroupA63F13slash10subgroup subclassA63Fsubclass Game rotation system for multiple game amusement game systems A multiple game amusement game system comprises a memory for storing a plurality of amusement games, a display for depicting a game selection menu including a set of game titles associated with certain ones of the plurality of amusement games, and a processing unit for rotating game titles into and out of the depicted set of game titles based on predetermined criteria.   The present invention relates generally to the field of amusement game systems and, more particularly, to a multiple game rotation system for an amusement game machine.  Traditionally, amusement gaming machines such as those found in arcades and other social establishments have been limited in scope to providing a single type of amusement game per game machine unit. Spatial concerns limited the number of "upright" game machines at a particular location due to the size of "upright" game machines. Floor space is at a premium at many gaming locations including bars, restaurants, and arcades. More recently, due in part to technological advancements in the computer industry, amusement game machines having multiple games per machine have been introduced. Such machines allow a game player to choose among a plurality of amusement games which the machine is capable of playing. These machines have mitigated some of the spatial concerns surrounding single game amusement game machines. As strides continue to be made in the computer industry, multi-game amusement game machines are containing more titles than ever. For example, many multi-game amusement game machines contain over 50 titles per machine. One drawback of having so many game titles listed on a display of an amusement game machine is that a game player often finds it difficult to locate a particular game. The display screen becomes littered with game titles which often cause players to become confused, overwhelmed, and/or irritated. The inventors of the present invention have found that players will eventually walk away from multi-game amusement game machines having a display screen so cluttered that the screen is too difficult or too frustrating to navigate. Further, the inventors have observed more plays on multi-game amusement game machines having fewer titles and consequently a less cluttered display than machines with many more titles and, consequently, a more cluttered display. Systems directed at alleviating the aforementioned cluttered display include limiting the number of titles displayed to the user as well as listing a specific number of games in a "top" or "favorites" category in addition to the less popular titles. However, either of these solutions requires manual operator intervention. Put another way, the operator must physically access an operator interface of the machine and select the game titles that are to be displayed to the user (or included in a "favorites" category). The inventors of the present invention have found that, in reality, the operators seldom take the time to update the listings or the "favorite" category. Rather, the same titles are continually displayed to the players of the multi-game amusement game machine. Therefore, a need exists for a multiple game amusement game system that automatically updates the games displayed to players of multi-game amusement game systems.  A multiple game amusement game system comprises a memory for storing a plurality of amusement games, a display for depicting a game selection menu including a set of game titles associated with certain ones of the plurality of amusement games, and a processing unit for rotating game titles into and out of the depicted set of game titles based on predetermined criteria. A multiple game amusement game system (30) characterized by:  The system of claim 1 further comprising a game rotation set-up menu (30) permitting an operator to select one or more of the plurality of games titles to exclude from display on the game selection menu. The system of claim 2 wherein the set-up menu further includes a game rotation time selection element (38) permitting the operator to specify the predetermined amount of time. The system of claim 3 wherein the predetermined amount of time ranges between one week and sixteen weeks. The system of claim 1 wherein the plurality of amusement games includes between two and two-hundred amusement games. The system of claim 1 wherein the game selection menu (60) has between two and ten game titles listed therein. The system of claim 1 further comprising a game selection element permitting the player to select one of the at least two game titles displayed on the game selection menu. The system of claim 1 or 19 wherein the criteria includes instances of game play per game. A method of rotating game titles displayed to a player of a multiple game amusement game machine (10), the method characterized by:  The method of claim 9 further comprising:  The method of claim 9 further comprising specifying the predetermined amount of time. The method of claim 11 wherein specifying the predetermined time period further comprises specifying the predetermined amount of time to be between one wink and sixteen weeks. The method of claim 9 wherein storing the plurality of amusement games in the memory further comprises storing between two amusement games and two hundred amusement games in the memory of the amusement game machine. The method of claim 9 wherein displaying the one or more of the plurality of game titles (62) in the game selection menu (60) further comprises displaying between two game titles and ten game titles in the game selection menu. The method of claim 9 wherein the one or more criteria includes instances of game play per game. The method of claim 9 further comprising excluding one or more games from being displayed in the game selection menu (60). The method of claim 9 wherein automatically updating the one or more game titles (62) displayed in the game selection menu (60) further characterized by:  The method of claim 17 wherein removing the one or more game titles from the game selection menu (60) further comprises removing one or more game titles corresponding to games that have been played less than predetermined number of times over the predetermined amount of time. A multiple game amusement game system characterized by:  The system of claim 19 wherein the processing unit automatically rotates the game titles (62) at a scheduled rotation time. A method for rotating game titles (62) displayed in a game selection menu (60) of a multiple game amusement game system, the method characterized by:  The method of claim 21 wherein rotating further comprises automatically rotating the game titles (62) at a scheduled rotation time. The method of claim 21 wherein the predetermined criteria includes instances of game play per game. A multiple game amusement game system (10) characterized by:  The system of claim 24 wherein the processing unit automatically rotates the game titles (62) at a scheduled rotation time. The system of claim 24 wherein the processing unit performs the scheduled rotation based on one or more predetermined criteria including instances of game play per game. <seperator>EP-1361767-A2<id_sep>groupH04M1slash00group classH04class subclassH04Wsubclass sectionHsection subclassH04Msubclass groupH04M11slash00group subgroupH04W8slash22subgroup Setup information management of a communication terminal The object of the present invention is to provide a communication terminal, service providing section, common setup information management section, and communication control method for making user setup information function effectively. In a communication terminal comprising a plurality of service providing sections (terminal adaptation function, operation section) which terminates a call, accepts operation instruction information, and provides a predetermined information service, a DCF (device control function) for managing the setup information, which is commonly set for the plurality of service providing sections and outputting control instruction information based on this setup information or operation instruction information, and a control section which controls operation of the plurality of service providing sections based on the control instruction information which is output from the DCF, are disposed, so that operation control of the plurality of service providing sections (e.g. startup of transfer/telephone answering machine) according to the common setup information or operation instruction information is implemented, and the problems where the setup information is not transferred to the control section and operation control according to this setup information cannot be implemented, can be solved.  BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Field of the Invention The present invention relates to a communication terminal for transmitting/receiving information to/from a network, a service providing equipment for terminating a call, receiving operation instruction information and providing a predetermined information service, a common setup information management equipment for managing common setup information of a plurality of service providing sections, and a communication control method for controlling operation of the communication terminal or a communication system which comprises the communication terminal. Related Background Art As functions of communication terminals increase, users of communication terminals demand to operate communication terminals according to their intentions. For example, an increasing need is that a communication terminal is set to drive mode when driving a car so as to temporarily reject a response, or telephone numbers of an incoming call rejection target are preset in the address book so that an incoming call from these telephone numbers are rejected. By the way, "drive mode" means a mode in which any incoming call is rejected while driving a vehicle, in this patent specification. Some communication terminals have a terminal adaptation function for terminating a call and providing a predetermined information service (e.g. voice communication, unrestricted digital communication, and packet communication), and a plurality of operation sections for accepting operation instruction information and providing a predetermined information service, but in prior art, user setup information, such as drive mode and incoming rejection setting, are individually managed by the terminal adaptation function in the communication terminal. Therefore when a notify indication is sent to one terminal adaptation function (e.g. external terminal adaptation function) which does not manage the user setup information, and a notify indication is not sent to another terminal adaptation function which manages the user setup information due to a mismatch of bearers, the latter terminal adaptation function cannot transfer the user setup information to the control section of the communication terminal, and operation control of the communication terminal according to the user setup information (e.g. startup of transfer/telephone answering machine) cannot be implemented, which is a first problem. In other words, as Fig. 9 shows, the terminal adaptation function 92 for supporting only voice calls holds the setup information of automatic transfer setting, but if the bearer of a setup message is an unrestricted digital communication, the rejection response (bearer mismatch) is returned to the control section 91 from the terminal adaptation function 92 since the terminal adaptation function 92 does not support "unrestricted digital communication", and a notify indication from the control section 91 is not sent to the adaptor 92. Therefore the terminal adaptation function 92 cannot transfer the setup information of the automatic transfer setting to the control section 91, and the external terminal adaptation function 93 is called up, but the external terminal adaptation function 93 does not know that a transfer setting has been set, so transfer cannot be started. Just like above, there is a second problem where one terminal adaptation function in the communication terminal cannot transmit a correct cause value to the control section of the communication terminal and network because of a mismatch of the bearer, or there is a third problem where, when communication is in-progress in the external terminal adaptation function, termination of a call cannot be started up from the communication terminal main unit even if the user presses the onhook button. A communication terminal for transmitting/receiving information to/from a network, comprising:  The communication terminal according to Claim 1, wherein said management control section judges whether the setup information should be enabled for an incoming call based on both or one of incoming information included in a setup message from the network and incoming time information, and on said common setup information, and controls operation of said plurality of service providing sections based on the judgment result. The communication terminal according to Claim 1, wherein said service providing section can hold individual setup information on said service providing section, and said management control section operates said service providing section which holds the individual setup information, based on said individual setup information. The communication terminal according to Claim 1, wherein said service providing section can hold individual setup information on said service providing section, and outputs said individual setup information to the communication terminal which operates said service providing section. A service providing equipment for terminating a call, receiving operation instruction information and providing a predetermined information service,    wherein a communication system is constituted by a communication terminal for managing the setup information on a service provision which is commonly set for a plurality of service providing equipment, and controlling the operation of said plurality of service providing equipment based on said setup information or operation instruction information, and by the plurality of service providing equipment; and    wherein said service providing equipment can hold individual setup information on said service providing equipment, and outputs said individual setup information to the communication terminal which operates said service providing equipment. A common setup information management equipment which constitutes a communication system along with a communication terminal comprising a plurality of service providing sections for terminating a call, receiving operation instruction information and providing a predetermined information service, and a control section for controlling the operation of said plurality of service providing sections based on the setup information on said service providing section or the operation instruction information,    wherein said common setup information management equipment manages the setup information on a service provision which is commonly set for said plurality of service providing sections, judges whether the setup information should be enabled for an incoming call based on both or one of incoming information included in a setup message from a network and incoming time information, and on said common setup information and notifies the judgment result to said control section as control instruction information. A communication control method for controlling operation of a communication system which comprises a plurality of service providing sections for terminating a call, receiving operation instruction information, and providing a predetermined information service, and transmits/receives information to/from a network,    wherein setup information on the service provision which is commonly set for said plurality of service providing sections is unitarily managed, and operation of said plurality of service providing sections is controlled based on said setup information or operation instruction information. <seperator>EP-1473562-A1<id_sep>subgroupG01N29slash11subgroup subgroupG01N29slash24subgroup sectionGsection classG01class subgroupG01N29slash44subgroup subgroupG01N29slash26subgroup subgroupG01N29slash04subgroup subclassG01Nsubclass Ultrasonic inspection method using interleaved subsets of transducers in a transducer array as transmitter and receiver elements An ultrasonic inspection method includes exciting a first set (10) of transducers in an array (14) to introduce ultrasonic energy into a component (20), generating a number of echo signals using a second set (16) of transducers in the array as receive elements, and processing the echo signals. The first and second sets of transducers are exclusive of one another, and the first and second sets of transducers are interleaved.  The invention relates generally to ultrasonic imaging methods and, more particularly, to improved near surface resolution for phased array ultrasonic inspection of industrial components. Phased array imaging ultrasound systems are a promising tool for industrial inspections. However, conventional ultrasonic inspection methods exhibit poor near surface resolution for certain inspection configurations. In particular, it is often desirable to perform an ultrasonic inspection where a transducer is located in close proximity to the test object (such as a component or structure, collectively termed "component" herein), in order to focus the ultrasound within the test object. However, industrial components, such as forgings, produce a strong reflection of the ultrasound from the surface of the component. The corresponding "interface signal" has a relatively long duration, reducing the ability to detect defects near the surface of the component. Figure 1 illustrates the conventional transmit/receive pattern for inspection of a component using phased array ultrasound. The corresponding predicted interface signal is shown in Figure 2. Because of the relatively long interface signal, the signals that correspond to defects near the surface of the component are difficult to identify and characterize, decreasing the near surface resolution of the phased array ultrasonic inspection. This near surface resolution issue for ultrasonic inspections has been addressed in different ways. One solution is to perform conventional ultrasonic inspection using a fixed geometry transducer instead of a phased array system. By "fixed geometry," it is meant that the transducer has fixed focal properties. The transducer is scanned over the surface of the component several times along a predefined path (raster, circumferential, etc.), with each scan being performed at a different distance from the surface of the component. By adjusting the separation between the transducer and the component surface, each successive scan moves the focus of the scan further into the component. The interrogation gates used to monitor the signal from the component are moved accordingly to inspect the component at various depths. Although this method permits near surface resolution of defects, it is time consuming because it involves repeated inspections of the component. Another solution is to inspect the industrial component, for example a forging, using the conventional phased array inspection technique described above with reference to Figure 1. To compensate for the poor near surface resolution, the forging is made slightly larger than the desired final size. After the inspection, the forging is machined down to the desired size. Removal of the outer portion of the material renders the poor near surface resolution less important. However, this method is expensive as it involves using excess material for the forgings and extra machining steps. Accordingly, it would be desirable to develop an ultrasonic inspection method for industrial applications, such as the inspection of aircraft engine forgings, that provides improved near surface resolution, without requiring the use of repeated scans at various distances from the surface of the test object. Briefly, in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention, an ultrasonic inspection method includes exciting a first set of transducers in an array to introduce ultrasonic energy into a component, generating a number of echo signals using a second set of transducers in the array as receive elements, and processing the echo signals. The first and second sets of transducers are exclusive of one another, and the first and second sets of transducers are interleaved. An ultrasonic inspection method comprising:  The ultrasonic inspection method of Claim 1, wherein the array and the component are separated by a standoff. The ultrasonic inspection method of Claim 1, wherein the array comprises a linear phased array (22). The ultrasonic inspection method of Claim 1, wherein the array comprises a two-dimensional phased array (24). The ultrasonic inspection method of Claim 1, wherein the array comprises a sectorial phased array (26). The ultrasonic inspection method of Claim 1, wherein said excitement of the first set of transducers comprises modulating a plurality of excitation signal pulses with a transmit delay profile to generate a plurality of modulated excitation signal pulses, and applying a separate one of the modulated excitation signal pulses to each of the transducers in the first set. A near surface resolution method for inspecting a forging (20), said method comprising:  The near surface resolution method of Claim 7, wherein the array and the forging are separated by a standoff. The near surface resolution inspection method of Claim 7, wherein the array comprises a linear phased array (22). The near surface resolution inspection method of Claim 7, wherein said excitement of the first set of transducers comprises modulating a plurality of excitation signal pulses with a transmit delay profile to generate a plurality of modulated excitation signal pulses, and applying a separate one of the modulated excitation signal pulses to each of the transducers in the first set. <seperator>EP-1801564-A1<id_sep>subgroupG01N33slash543subgroup groupB01L3slash00group sectionBsection subclassB01Lsubclass sectionGsection classB01class classG01class subclassG01Nsubclass subgroupG01N21slash05subgroup subgroupG01N21slash03subgroup Providing light to channels or portions A fluidic structure (12) includes a channel (14), a portion of which can contain fluid. Light can propagate in the portion, such as in response to illumination. The refractive index of material at the portion's boundary can be higher than that of the fluid, and more than approximately 10% of intensity of light propagating longitudinally occurs in the fluid, possibly approximately 90%. An IC can be positioned along the portion, with a set of cells of a photosensor array on the IC sensing photons emanating in response to the propagating light. The light can enter through a light-transmissive component along the channel's boundary, then pass obliquely through a portion of the channel that contains air before passing through a bounding component and obliquely into the portion that can contain fluid. The light can couple to an anti-rosonant waveguide mode.  The present invention relates to providing light to channels or portions of channels. It would be advantageous to have improved techniques for providing light to channels or portions of channels. In accordance with a first aspect of the present invention, a method of sensing photons emanating from a channel portion defined in a fluidic structure, the channel portion extending a length in a longitudinal direction and having, at each position along its length, a respective cross section; in each position's cross section, the channel portion having a boundary along most of which it is surrounded by material with higher refractive index than a fluid in the channel portion would have; comprises with fluid in the channel portion, propagating light in the longitudinal direction through the channel portion so that, in cross sections along a part of the length, more than approximately 10% of light intensity from the propagated light occurs in the fluid; and using a set of cells of a photosensor array on an IC positioned along the channel portion to sense photons emanating from the channel portion in response to the propagated light. In accordance with a second aspect of the present invention comprises a fluidic structure; and defined within the fluidic structure, a channel portion extending in a longitudinal direction; the fluidic structure including a light-transmissive bounding component between first and second portions of the channel; the fluidic structure further having defined therein at least two ports through which fluid can enter and exit the first portion; the bounding component being positioned so that light can enter the second portion at a first angle oblique to the longitudinal direction, pass through the bounding component, and enter the first portion of the channel at a second angle oblique to the longitudinal direction. These and other features and advantages of exemplary embodiments of the invention are described below with reference to the accompanying drawings. In this specification, "light" refers herein to electromagnetic radiation of any wavelength or frequency; unless otherwise indicated, a specific value for light wavelength or frequency is that of light propagating through vacuum. The term "photon" refers herein to a quantum of light, and the term "photon energy" refers herein to the energy of a photon. The various exemplary implementations described below address problems that arise in propagating light in certain contexts. In particular, the implementations address problems that arise in efficiently and effectively illuminating objects, especially in situations in which photons emanate from objects in response to propagating light and in situations in which many objects are far apart from each other and all of them should be illuminated, such as for large area excitation. The emanating photons can be sensed. These problems can arise for biosensors that use light to investigate analytes. The interaction between light and analyte is typically very weak. To improve the interaction, optical waveguides can be used, but usually the fluid or other substance that contains the analyte cannot itself be used as an optical waveguide, because its refractive index is lower than the index of surrounding material. Therefore, a conventional optical waveguide typically provides only weak interaction with target molecules, through evanescent waves along the periphery of the waveguide. A method of sensing photons emanating from a channel portion defined in a fluidic structure, the channel portion extending a length in a longitudinal direction and having, at each position along its length, a respective cross section; in each position's cross section, the channel portion having a boundary along most of which it is surrounded by material with higher refractive index than a fluid in the channel portion would have; the method comprising:  The method of claim 1, in which, in the cross sections along the part of the length, approximately 90% of light intensity from the propagated light occurs in the fluid. The method of claim 1 or claim 2, in which the act of propagating light comprises:  The method of any of the preceding claims, in which the act of providing light further comprises: Apparatus comprising:  The apparatus of claim 5, in which the illumination component includes a source that provides light from outside the channel portion; the light from the source entering the channel portion in a direction oblique to the longitudinal direction, and in which the fluidic structure comprises:  The apparatus of claim 6, in which the light-transmissive component has an approximately planar exterior surface that is neither parallel nor perpendicular to the longitudinal direction; the source providing light at approximately normal through the exterior surface. The apparatus of claim 5, in which the illumination component includes a source that provides light from outside the channel portion; the light from the source entering the channel portion in a direction oblique to the longitudinal direction, and in which the fluidic structure includes an end component at an end of the channel portion, the end component including a light-transmissive portion; the source providing light through the light-transmissive portion. The apparatus of claim 8, in which the fluidic structure includes a light-transmissive component that extends in the longitudinal direction along at least part of the channel portion's boundary and beyond the end component to a region in which a projection of the channel portion contains air, gas, or vacuum; the source providing light through the light-transmissive component to the projection of the channel portion and through the projection of the channel portion to the light-transmissive portion of the end component. Apparatus comprising:  The apparatus of claim 10, in which the second angle is approximately 2° or less. The apparatus of claim 10 or claim 11, in which light entering the first portion of the channel at the second angle is adapted to couple to an anti-resonant waveguide mode of the first portion. The apparatus of any of claims 10 to 12, in which the fluidic structure further includes an outer component in the second portion of the channel and outward from the bounding component, the second portion containing air, gas, or vacuum between the outer component and the bounding component. <seperator>EP-1619636-A1<id_sep>classH03class sectionHsection classG06class subgroupG06F7slash02subgroup subclassH04Ksubclass groupG06K9slash00group classH04class groupH04L9slash00group sectionGsection subclassG06Ksubclass subclassH03Msubclass subgroupH03M1slash68subgroup subgroupH04L9slash32subgroup subgroupG06F7slash04subgroup classG07class subgroupG07F7slash10subgroup subgroupG06F17slash30subgroup subclassG07Fsubclass subgroupH04N7slash16subgroup subclassH04Nsubclass subclassG06Fsubclass groupH04K1slash00group subclassH04Lsubclass Server authentication in non-secure channel card PIN reset methods and computer implemented processes A method for resetting a pin on an access card is disclosed. The method includes generating a server authentication (SA) public key and an SA private key and attempting a write of the SA public key to the access card over a non-secure channel. The method further includes determining if the access card currently contains an existing SA public key. The attempted write of the SA public key is handled by one of: (i) completing the attempted write of the SA public key to the access card over the non-secure channel if it is determined that the access card did not contain an existing public key; (ii) denying the attempted write of the SA public key to the access card over the non-secure channel if it is determined that the existing SA public key matches the SA public key that is attempted by the write; and (iii) denying the attempted write of the SA public key to the access card over the non-secure channel if it is determined that the existing SA public key does not match the SA public key that is attempted by the write.   Controlling access to computing resources and data is of major importance in today's digital security environment. Without sufficient security measures to restrict access to authorized entities, sensitive data and resources can be compromised beyond recovery. Thus, a recognized need exists for strong authentication mechanisms to control access to vulnerable computing domains. However, implementation of many currently available strong authentication mechanisms requires expensive and complex security system deployments, thus deterring implementation by many entities that could benefit from stronger authentication. For example, Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) represents a set of standards for creating, storing, and managing asymmetric keys that can be used for authentication. Though PKI provides strong authentication, security consumer adoption of PKI has been limited due to the significant expense and complexity of PKI deployment. Therefore, security consumers have been traditionally required to choose between weak single factor authentication, e.g., username/password only, or stronger authentication, e.g., PKI, involving complex and expensive deployments. Consequently, a need exists for an authentication mechanism that is stronger than single factor and does not require the complex and expensive deployment of PKI. Cards that communicate under a system defined protocol (e.g., the Java™ Card Enterprise Software (JCES)), are commonly designed as secure repositories of applications and data. Privileged operations such as loading new applications, updating secured data and changing a user's pin requires the establishment of a mutually authenticated secure connection with an agent in possession of the card's master key. This is referred to as a secure channel, as defined in the Global Platform specification. For more information, reference may be made to GlobalPlatform.org, and articles published by the Global Platform organization. Managing master keys is a very sensitive proposition, and in most deployments requires a Hardware Security Module (HSM) and Public Key Infrastructure (PKI), involving a great deal of complexity and expense. As such, support for non-privileged operations requiring the master key are denied. Consequently, entry level systems that only have non-secured channels cannot take advantage of the added security provided by 2-Factor authentication (i.e., Factor 1: something you have; Factor 2: something you know). One minimum functionality needed for an entry level card is to allow users to reset their pin, in case they forget the pin. Unfortunately, resetting the pin is a privileged operation that requires a master key, so as to avoid non-trusted servers from resetting the pin, and thus sacrificing the security provided by the 2-Factor authentication. In view of the foregoing, there is a need for methods that will enable resetting of a pin for a card in a secure way that enables authentication of the server that is asked to reset the pin. The methods should allow for this security over a non-secured channel, so as to make entry level cards more practical for base level operation.  Aspects of the invention are defined in the claims. It should be appreciated that the present invention can be implemented in numerous ways, such as a process, an apparatus, a system, a device or a method on a computer readable medium. Several inventive embodiments of the present invention are described below. A method for resetting a pin on an access card, comprising:  A method for resetting a pin on an access card as recited in claim 1, wherein the denying of (ii) signals an exception to an applet of the access card, the exception defining a code that prevents the write of the SA public key and allows continuation with an enrollment process to setup the access card for an individual. A method for resetting a pin on an access card as recited in claim 1 or claim 2, wherein when the non-secure channel is converted into a secure channel, the attempt to write the SA public key is allowed whether or not the existing SA public key is present on the access card. A method for resetting a pin on an access card as recited in any one of the preceding claims, further comprising:  A method for resetting a pin on an access card as recited in claim 4, further comprising,  receiving an out-of-band reset request indicating an intent to attempt the reset of the pin in operation (d); and  setting a temporary flag to indicate an approval of the out-of-band reset request; and  unsetting the flag when the challenge is encrypted, the reset process attempt is aborted, or a timer associated with the temporary flag has run out. A method for resetting a pin on an access card as recited in claim 6, wherein allowing the reset of the pin on the access card when the decrypted challenge matches the challenge initiated to the server authenticates the server. A method for resetting a pin on an access card as recited in claim 6 or claim 7, wherein the server being authenticated ensures that the server is a trusted server containing the SA private key pair that matches the SA public key. A method for resetting a pin on an access card as recited in any one of claims 4 to 7, wherein an authenticate server method enables: (I) generation of the challenge and (II) decryption of the challenge, and setting/not-setting of the pin. A method for authenticating a server for resetting a pin of an access card, the method comprising:  A method for authenticating a server for resetting a pin of an access card as recited in claim 9, wherein the encrypted challenge and a new pin are provided together when the resetting of the pin is attempted, wherein providing the encrypted challenge and the new pin together ensures that the encrypted challenge was a result of the request to reset the pin. A method for authenticating a server for resetting a pin of an access card as recited in claim 9 or claim 10, wherein negotiating the out-of-band reset request to enable initiation of the pin reset process includes communicating with an administrator of the access card who has access to the user/card identification database. A method for authenticating a server for resetting a pin of an access card as recited in any one of claims 9 to 11, wherein when initiation of the pin reset process is approved, a temporary flag is set; and  unsetting the flag when the challenge is decrypted, the reset process attempt is aborted, or a timer associated with the temporary flag has run out. A method for authenticating a server for resetting a pin of an access card as recited in any one of claims 9 to 12, wherein reset of the pin on the access card is allowed when the decrypted challenge matches the challenge initiated to the server, the match authenticates the server. A method for authenticating a server for resetting a pin of an access card as recited in claim 13, wherein the server being authenticated ensures that the server is a trusted server containing the SA private key that matches the SA public key to define a matching asymmetric key pair. A method for authenticating a server for resetting a pin of an access card as recited in claim 14, wherein an authenticate server method enables: (I) generation of the challenge and (II) decryption of the challenge, and setting/not-setting of the pin. Computer readable code comprising program instructions operable to carry out the method of any one of claims 1 to 15. The computer readable code of claim 16 on a computer readable medium. A system for resetting a pin on a card, comprising:  A system for authenticating a server for resetting a pin of an access card, the system comprising:  <seperator>EP-1842541-A1<id_sep>subgroupA61K31slash366subgroup subclassA61Ksubclass groupA61P35slash00group subgroupA61P25slash34subgroup subgroupA61K31slash404subgroup classA61class subgroupA61K31slash403subgroup groupA61P43slash00group subgroupA61P15slash12subgroup groupA61P15slash00group groupA61P25slash00group subgroupA61K36slash185subgroup subgroupA61K31slash353subgroup subclassA61Psubclass subgroupA23L1slash30subgroup subgroupA61K36slash31subgroup subgroupA61K31slash352subgroup subclassA23Lsubclass sectionAsection classA23class Plant components and extracts and uses thereof The present invention provides a medicament comprising a chemical compound according to formula 1:  The present invention relates to plant components and extracts and uses therefor. The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR), also known as dioxin receptor, is a ligand-activated transcription factor and a member of the basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) PER-ARNT-SIM (PAS) protein family. This transcription factor has been found in nearly all vertebrates. The molecular mass of the AhR varies from 95 to 105 kDa by species and by strain. The AhR is an orphan receptor; although numerous xenobiotic and natural compounds are known to interact with AhR, a physiological ligand is unknown. Even though evidence for a certain endogenous physiological ligand could not be found so far. In various studies an AhR signalling pathway in absence of exogenous ligands has been demonstrated and a disruption of AhR expression pattern also resulted in decreased development of mouse blastocysts and alternation in cell cycle progression. Examples of diverse ligands include dietary compounds [2-4], natural [5, 6] and synthetic flavonoids [7], as well as anthropogenic chemicals such as dioxins (e.g., 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin) [8, 9], furans and halogenated aromatic hydrocarbons (HAHs) [10]. Among the bHLH/PAS family, AhR is the only member that requires ligand binding for activation. Activation of AhR leads to an upregulation of the cytochromes p450 CYP1A1, CYP1A2 and CYP1B1 and phase II enzymes thus leading to the metabolism and degradation of foreign substances. The ligand binding domain is circumjacent PAS B. The hsp90 binding domain is an intrinsic component of the ligand binding domain. A wide range of substances seems to be able to bind to the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) and thereby excite the expression of particular genes. Common denominator of these compounds is their chemical structure: most of them are planar, aromatic and hydrophobic molecules. But the structural diversity within the AhR-ligands is great [12]. The best known agonist in the literature is certainly dioxin (2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin), which is a very potent toxin. A lot of other environmental toxins and anthropogenic substances, termed polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAHs), have a similar effect. Natural ligands of the AhR belong to the group of flavonoids and isoflavonoids. Flavonoids are secondary plant compounds, which are known to have various bioactivities such as antioxidative and anticarcinogenic properties, and some act also as phytoestrogens. Some flavonoids act as agonist of the AhR while others function as antagonists. A beneficial effect of antagonists is the suppression of the toxicity of dioxin, e.g. This could be proved for chrysin, baicalein, apigenin, kaempferol and naringenin [5, 6]. Other features of the AhR beside its role in xenobiotic metabolism via cytochrome p450 regulation are a result of its dimerisation with HIF 1α, and HIF 1β. The aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator (ARNT) is like its dimerisation partner AhR a bHLH-protein [1] and also known as hypoxia-inducing factor 1β (HIF 1β). But in contrast to the AhR, this protein is constitutively localised in the nucleus. ARNT is necessary for the ligand-mediated activation of the AhR within the nucleus, but does not independently bind ligands. In addition, ARNT is not required for AhR translocation into the nucleus in spite of the term "nuclear translocator". This is a relict from the time ARNT was cloned for the first time and misattributed to a cytoplasmatic protein. ARNT acts not only as binding partner for the AhR but also as general partner factor for members of the bHLHPAS family, such as AhR, HIF 1α and SIM (single-minded) proteins. Moreover, ARNT forms homodimers as well as heterodimers with the mentioned bHLH-PAS proteins [11]. In response to low O A medicament comprising a chemical compound according to formula 1:  Medicament according to claim 1,  Use of biochanin A, formononetin, a compound of formula 1 as defined in claim 1, preferably 1-(2-furanyl)2-(3-indolyl)ethanone, or mixtures thereof, for the production of a pharmaceutical or nutritional preparation for the activation of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor. Use of biochanin A, formononetin, a compound of formula 1 as defined in claim 1, preferably 1-(2-furanyl)2-(3-indolyl)ethanone, or mixtures thereof, as aryl hydrocarbon receptor activator ex vivo. Use according to claim 3,  Use according to claim 5,  Use according to claim 3 or 4 for the production of cytochrome P450 or glutathione-S-transferase Ya. Method for the isolation of a compound of claim 2, comprising a chromatographic purification of sauerkraut or sauerkraut juice. Use of a plant extract or plant juice for the production of a pharmaceutical or nutritional preparation for the activation of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor, wherein the plant extract or juice comprises aryl hydrocarbon receptor activity. Use according to claim 9,  Use according to claim 9 to 10,  Use according to any one of claims 9 to 11,  Use according to any one of claims 9 to 12,  Use according to any one of claims 9 to 13,  Use according to any one of claims 9 to 14,  Use according to any one of claims 9 to 15,  Use according to any one of claim 9 to 16,  Use according to claim 17,  Use according to any one of claims 9 to 18 for the production of a preparation for treatment of menopausal disorders, detoxification in smokers, abatement of hypoxia, anti-ageing, cancer treatment or cancer prevention, anti-inflammation and increased wound-healing. Use according to claim 19,  Method for the activation of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor using a plant extract or plant juice according to any one of claims 9 to 20 or using biochanin A, formononetin or a compound of formula 1 as defined in claim 1, preferably 1-(2-furanyl)2-(3-indolyl)ethanone, as aryl hydrocarbon receptor activator. <seperator>EP-1349296-A1<id_sep>groupH04J13slash00group groupH04W52slash00group classH04class subclassH04Wsubclass sectionHsection subgroupH04W52slash58subgroup subclassH04Bsubclass subclassH04Jsubclass subgroupH04B7slash005subgroup subgroupH04B7slash26subgroup subgroupH04W52slash36subgroup subgroupH04W52slash22subgroup Power control method and telecommunications system The invention describes a method of controlling transmission power in a telecommunications system comprising a first and a second transceiver. In the presented method, one power control command is transmitted during at least two time-slots from the second transceiver to the first transceiver and said one power control command is received at the first transceiver during at least two time-slots.  The invention relates to a method of controlling transmission power in a telecommunications system, and to a telecommunications system. In telecommunications systems, power control is important for the prevention of signal fading, shading, near-far problems and co-channel interference. Power control is particularly necessary in situations in which system users are located both near and far from a base station. Signals should arrive at the base station receiver with equal power or else the signals arriving with a lower power would be covered by the higher-power signals. Transmitters located far away should thus transmit the signals at a higher power than transmitters close to the base station. In addition, the signals should be transmitted at an as low power level as possible that would, however, be sufficient to meet the quality requirements set for the signals. In prior-art CDMA systems (e.g. IS-95, CDMA-PCS, UMTS, CDMA2000), the transmission power of the terminal and base station is controlled for instance by first measuring the signal-to-interference ratio of the transmitted signal and determining by means of it and other reference values a power control command for adjusting the transmission power at each time. The terminal increases or decreases its transmission power according to instructions provided by the base station in accordance with the power control commands it receives in each time-slot. In the IS-95, CDMA-PCS and CDMA2000 systems, there are two power control commands: increase and decrease. In the UMTS system, there are three (in theory four) power control commands: increase, decrease and maintaining the power. In the base station, a reference level is determined for instance on the basis of the ratio between bit energy and interference energy and the bit error rate, and the reference level is used to control power, i.e. to increase or decrease power as necessary. The base station then transmits to the terminal a command to either increase or decrease transmission power, whereby the terminal increases or decreases its earlier transmission power level by a predefined quantity, usually one or two decibels at a time. Drawbacks with the prior-art solutions include the fact that since power can only be increased by a predefined quantity, generally one or two decibels at a time, with one power control command, it is not possible to react to rapid changes in channel conditions. Such a situation arises in a rapidly fading channel, wherein power should be quickly increased or decreased large quantities at a time to obtain an optimum power level. A problem with the prior-art solutions is thus a long transmission-power change time, in addition to which, the transmission power level also varies continuously. It is an object of the invention to implement a method and a telecommunications system implementing the method in such a manner that the problems related to the prior art are reduced. This is achieved by a method of controlling transmission power in a telecommunications system comprising a first and a second transceiver. The method of the invention comprises transmitting one power control command during at least two time-slots from the second transceiver to the first transceiver and receiving said one power control command in the first transceiver during at least two time-slots. A method of controlling transmission power in a telecommunications system, in which a message structure comprising time-slots is used, the system comprising a first transceiver (101) and a second transceiver (100), the method comprising controlling the transmission power of the first transceiver (101) based on a received power control command, characterized by A method as claimed in claim 1, characterized by transmitting one power control command during n time-slots, wherein n = 2, 3, ..., in such a manner that the power control command is placed in m time-slots, wherein m = 2, 3, ..., n. A method as claimed in claim 1, characterized by transmitting the power control command in such a manner that the number of power control bits in different time-slots varies. A method as claimed in claim 3, characterized by freeing the space required by the power control bits for other use in the time-slots, in which the number of power control bits is smaller than the average number of power control bits. A method as claimed in claim 3, characterized by reserving extra power control bits in the time-slots, in which the number of power control bits is larger than the average number of power control bits. A method as claimed in claim 1, characterized by forming the power control command on the basis of the signals received by the second transceiver (100). A method as claimed in claim 1, characterized by transmitting one power control command in every second time-slot. A telecommunications system, wherein a message structure comprising time-slots is used, the system comprising a first transceiver (101) and a second transceiver (100), the first transceiver (101) being configured to control transmission power based on a received power control command, characterized in that A system as claimed in claim 8, characterized in that the second transceiver (100) is configured to transmit one power control command during n time-slots, wherein n = 2, 3, ..., in such a manner that the power control command is placed in m time-slots, wherein m = 2, 3, ..., n. A system as claimed in claim 8, characterized in that the second transceiver (100) is configured to transmit the power control command in such a manner that the number of power control bits in different time-slots varies. A system as claimed in claim 10, characterized in that the second transceiver (100) is configured to free the space required by the power control bits for other use in the time-slots, in which the number of power control bits is smaller than the average number of power control bits. A system as claimed in claim 10, characterized in that the second transceiver (100) is configured to reserve extra power control bits in the time-slots, in which the number of power control bits is larger than the average number of power control bits. A system as claimed in claim 8, characterized in that the second transceiver (100) is configured to form the power control command on the basis of the signals received by it. A system as claimed in claim 8, characterized in that the second transceiver (100) is configured to transmit one power control command in every second time-slot. <seperator>EP-1503336-A2<id_sep>classH04class groupH04N1slash00group sectionHsection subgroupG06F17slash30subgroup subgroupG06F17slash21subgroup subclassG06Tsubclass sectionGsection subclassH04Nsubclass subclassG06Fsubclass classG06class groupG06T7slash00group subgroupG06T11slash60subgroup System and method for measuring and quantizing document quality Text, images, and/or graphics of electronic documents should be organized and laid out in a two-dimensional format for presentation to the viewer. The best such layout depends upon the content present, the creator's intent, the output device, and the viewer's interests. To analyze the qualitative nature of the layout in quantifiable terms, the electronic document is measure using various quantifiable factors; such as, balance, uniformity, white space management, alignment, consistency, legibility, etc.; that impact a qualitative nature of a document. Such quantifiable factors are then used to quantize the aesthetics, ease of use, eye-catching ability, interest, communicability, comfort, and convenience of the document.  The present invention generally relates to the field of document layout, design, and analysis and, more particularly, to methods which quantitatively measure a document's quality based on characteristics inherent in the document itself. When documents are created, many decisions must be made as to style, content, layout, and the like. The text, images, and graphics must be organized and laid out in a two-dimensional format with the intention of providing a presentation to the viewer which will capture and preferably maintain their attention for the time sufficient to get the intended message across. Different style options are available for the various content elements and choices must be made. The best choices for style and layout depend upon content, intent, viewer interests, etc. In order to tell if a set of choices made as to the look and feel of the final version of the document were good or bad, one might request feedback from a set of viewers after viewing the document and compile the feedback into something meaningful from which the document's creators or developers can make alterations, changes, or other improvements. This cycle repeats until the document's owners are satisfied that the final version achieves the intended result. Factors that contribute to the quality and effectiveness of layout and style decisions for a document are the handling of groups of content elements as style and layout choices affect groups of content. A group is a collection of content elements. Group membership is a property of the logical structure of the document. The neighborhood of groups can be considered a layout property. While layout structure often matches the logical structure, there is no requirement that it do so. Preferably, one would like to have a quantitative measure of various value properties of the document (measures of the document "goodness") based on properties inherent in the document itself. In this manner the document itself provides a level of quantitative feedback. For instance, one property that developer's would like to be able to measure would be how easy it is to use a document. A measure for the ease of use of a document can be used in evaluating or making document design decisions. One aspect of the ease of use of a document is one's ability to tell which elements belong to a group and which do not. The style and layout decisions that are made in the presentation of a document can affect the degree of group identity that it conveys. In evaluating a document's design for its ease of use, it is useful to have a measure of the degree of group identity. Considerations for ease-of-use with respect to groups include spatial coherence, spatial separation, alignment separation, heading separation, background separation, and/or style separation. Measures for various characteristics of content, feature, and the like could be weighted by intent, relevance, and other parameters and these could then be combined to obtain one or more overall measures for the document itself. If one had a method for evaluating properties inherent in the document itself then such a measure could be used during the document development process to help determine optimal presentation. A method for quantifying a measure of quality of a document, comprising:  The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the predetermined combining function is a weighted average or sum of the quantized measured predetermined set of characteristics. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the predetermined combining function is a weighted product of or a non-linear operation performed upon the quantized measured predetermined set of characteristics. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein one of the quantized predetermined characteristics is one of consistency, disability proof, ease of navigation, viewable fraction or color harmony of the document. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein one of the quantized predetermined characteristics is legibility, searchability or locatability of objects in the document. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein one of the quantized predetermined characteristics is single window displayability or transmission/processing time of the document. The method as claimed in claim 4, wherein the quantized consistency of the document is realized by:  A method for quantifying a measure of quality of a document, comprising:  A method for quantifying a measure of quality of a document, comprising:  <seperator>EP-1825885-A2<id_sep>subgroupA61K8slash30subgroup subgroupA61K8slash35subgroup subclassA61Ksubclass classA61class subgroupA61Q5slash06subgroup subclassA61Qsubclass subgroupA61K8slash49subgroup subgroupA61K8slash46subgroup sectionAsection Method for color-revitalizing hair A method for color-revitalizing a color tone of hair, comprising:  applying a color-revitalizing composition to hair that has previously been dyed with an oxidative hair dye composition and whose color has thereafter faded, said color-revitalizing composition having a color determined based on a color of said oxidative hair dye composition, said color of the color-revitalizing composition being different from that of the oxidative hair dye composition, and containing at least one direct dye, and  thereby revitalizing the color tone obtained by the hair after being dyed with said oxidative hair dye composition. According to the invention, the faded color tone of hair previously dyed with an oxidative hair dye composition can be revitalized to the original color tone observed immediately after dyeing without damaging hair.  Field of the Invention The present invention relates to a color-revitalizing method for returning the faded color tone of hair previously dyed with an oxidative hair dye composition to the color tone observed immediately after dyeing. The method of the invention is able to cope with widely diverse color tones. Description of the Background Art It is well appreciated that individuals often wish to cosmetically alter the coloring of their hair by various known hair coloring treatments and that many individuals change their own hair color to their favorite hair color using currently available hair dye compositions. In particular, oxidative dye compositions are commonly used because such compositions simultaneously decolor and dye hair, thus widening the degree of freedom of hair color. Thus, individuals having comparatively dark hair are able to use such products. Moreover, the products provide a greater number of color variations. Use of oxidative dye compositions to treat hair is typically not inexpensive and is time consuming as well. Moreover, the chemicals employed in these treatments can be caustic and somewhat damaging to the hair. Their frequent use is not preferred, and rather they are generally used at intervals of at least about one month. It is unavoidable that the color of hair dyed with oxidative dye compositions gradually fades during this one month owing to the influence of washing with shampoo, sweat, ultraviolet rays from sunshine and the like. The gradual fading of color results in a gradual reduction in the feeling of satisfaction generally felt immediately after dyeing. Thus, individuals who have had their hair color-treated are often desirous of prolonging the effects of treatment for as long as possible, and otherwise wish to keep their hair in as healthy a state as possible between visits to the colorist. One way of prolonging the freshness of a hair coloring treatment and to otherwise preserve the condition of the hair is to use hair color maintenance shampoos, conditioners, rinses, mousses, gels, sprays and the like. Examples of such hair color maintenance products include AVEDA Thus, products for maintaining hair color without damaging hair are already being sold, and products such as shampoos, conditioners or sets thereof, which have been designed to be used every day for hair previously dyed with an oxidative dye composition, are known. However, products having the same color as the color of the hair dyed with permanent (oxidative) hair dye to maintain color of the dyed hair is often selected. The products, typically referred to as color-maintaining products, are formulated having the same color as the dyed hair. Such products have a number of drawbacks. For example, such products require daily use in order to maintain hair color. Furthermore, such products are low in hair dyeing power, thus being insufficient for revitalizing fading color. However, this method is not always sufficient in returning hair to the exact color observed immediately after being dyed with an oxidative dye composition because the color of compositions that should be used to return faded hair color to the color of hair observed immediately after dyeing may be different for different individuals even in cases where the color of hair determined by visual recognition appears to be the same. For example, even in persons whose hair colors are almost the same "somewhat reddish light brown" as determined by visual recognition, colors of compositions that should be used for exactly returning hair to the color observed immediately after dyeing when the hair color of the "somewhat reddish light brown" is faded are different between a person who has dyed her original blond hair "somewhat reddish light brown" and a person who has dyed her original somewhat dark reddish brown hair "somewhat reddish light brown". A method for color-revitalizing a color tone of hair, comprising:  The method according to Claim 1, wherein said color-revitalizing composition comprises:  The method according to Claim 1, wherein said color-revitalizing composition comprises:  The method for color-revitalizing a color tone of hair according to any one of Claims 1 to 3, wherein said color-revitalizing composition to be used is determined through the steps comprising:  The method according to any one of Claims 1 to 4, wherein a color-revitalizing composition of a color tone belonging in a circular range with a radius r of 11 centering around a point of L* = 51, a* = 8 and b* = 19 in a color coordinate space (L*a*b* color space) is used when the color of said oxidative hair dye composition falls within a range of L* is 15 to 47, a* is -2 to 8, and b* is 9 to 35 in the color coordinate space. The method according to any one of Claims 1 to 4, wherein a color-revitalizing composition of a color tone belonging in a circular range with a radius r of 6 centering around a point of L* = 76, a* = 2 and b* = 21 in a color coordinate space (L*a*b* color space) is used when the color of said oxidative hair dye composition falls within a range that L* is 47 to 90, a* is -2 to 8, and b* is 9 to 35 in the color coordinate space. The method according to any one of Claims 1 to 4, wherein a color-revitalizing composition of a color tone belonging in a circular range with a radius r of 12 centering around a point of L* = 53, a* = 4 and b* = 18 in a color coordinate space (L*a*b* color space) is used when the color of said oxidative hair dye composition falls within a range that L* is 15 to 43, a* is -2 to 8, and b* is 0 to 9 in the color coordinate space. The method according to any one of Claims 1 to 4, wherein a color-revitalizing composition of a color tone belonging in a circular range with a radius r of 9 centering around a point of L* = 78, a* = 2 and b* = 0 in a color coordinate space (L*a*b* color space) is used when the color of said oxidative hair dye composition falls within a range that L* is 43 to 52, a* is -2 to 8, and b* is 0 to 9 in the color coordinate space. The method according to any one of Claims 1 to 4, wherein a color-revitalizing composition of a color tone belonging in a circular range with a radius r of 5 centering around a point of L* = 82, a* = 0 and b* = 5 in a color coordinate space (L*a*b* color space) is used when the color of said oxidative hair dye composition falls within a range that L* is 52 to 90, a* is -2 to 8, and b* is 0 to 9 in the color coordinate space. The method according to any one of Claims 1 to 4, wherein a color-revitalizing composition of a color tone belonging in a circular range with a radius r of 4 centering around a point of L* = 55, a* = 25 and b* = 16 in a color coordinate space (L*a*b* color space) is used when the color of said oxidative hair dye composition falls within a range that L* is 15 to 46, a* is 8 to 12, and b* is 0 to 35 in the color coordinate space. The method according to any one of Claims 1 to 4, wherein a color-revitalizing composition of a color tone belonging in a circular range with a radius r of 8 centering around a point of L* = 50, a* = 32 and b* = 10 in a color coordinate space (L*a*b* color space) is used when the color of said oxidative hair dye composition falls-within a range that L* is 15 to 46, a* is 12 to 30, and b* is 0 to 35 in the color coordinate space. The method according to any one of Claims 1 to 4, wherein a color-revitalizing composition of a color tone belonging in a circular range with a radius r of 8 centering around a point of L* = 55, a* = 17 and b* = 23 in a color coordinate space (L*a*b* color space) is used when the color of said oxidative hair dye composition falls within a range that L* is 46 to 90, a* is 8 to 30, and b* is 0 to 35 in the color coordinate space. <seperator>EP-1800823-A1<id_sep>subgroupB29C33slash04subgroup sectionBsection subgroupB29C45slash34subgroup classB29class subclassB29Csubclass subgroupB29C45slash73subgroup Injection mould with variable coolant flow rate, the corresponding method and injection mould with a venting ring An injection-moulding device is disclosed, comprising at least a first (1) and a second (3) mould part, defining a mould cavity, wherein at least one of the mould parts comprises cooling ducts (5), for cooling the mould part in the vicinity of a mould cavity surface (11), and heating means (18), for heating the mould part in the vicinity of the mould cavity surface during a part of a process cycle. The injection-moulding device is arranged to feed coolant through the cooling ducts at a variable flow rate, and the flow rate is reduced during a part of the process cycle when the heating means (18) is used.  Technical field The present invention relates to an injection-moulding device, a method for injection-moulding, and to information carriers and lightguide plates produced by means of such a device or such a method. Background of the invention Known injection-moulding devices, for producing objects of different kinds, usually comprise two main mould parts for defining a cavity. A first, fixed part has an injection nozzle, injecting the liquid moulding compound, typically a warm resin such as polycarbonate, into the cavity. A second mould part is movable in relation to the fixed mould part, such that it can be moved to open the cavity. The volume of the mould cavity, for forming the object, may be arranged in either or both of the mould parts. In so-called injection compression injection-moulding devices there may also be a third part defining the cavity. When forming an object, liquid resin from an extruder is injected into the mould cavity through the nozzle when the two mould parts are in a closed or nearly closed state. As soon as an adequate amount of resin has been injected, the mould parts may be closed by pushing the movable part towards the fixed part, which allows a fine structure to be formed on an object surface, the structure being an inverse of a structure formed on one of the mould parts. E.g. if a CD (Compact Disc) is produced, this structure comprises a digital pattern intended, after several post-processing steps, to be readable by means of a laser pick-up system. The mould parts are then cooled, usually by means of cooling water flowing in integrated cooling ducts, such that the resin in the cavity is solidified. Subsequently, the mould parts are separated by retracting the movable mould part, and the finished object can be removed. The injected resin should be warm enough to allow the resin to completely fill the cavity and any desired surface structure to be reproduced before the resin reaches its glass transition region. This imposes limitations upon the temperature of the moulded resin when injected into the cavity as well as upon the temperature of the cooling water. When injected into the cavity, the resin temperature must be substantially higher than the upper range of the glass transition region. When the injection phase is completed and the cooling phase follows, at least some parts of the mould need be cooled from a starting temperature which is quite high. This is done with cooling water, the temperature of which must not be so low that the resin is solidified too early. The cooling water temperature may be 115°C in a typical DVD-R manufacturing process. Therefore, the time needed for cooling is quite long. The total cycle time needed to injection mould e.g. a DVD-R (Digital Versatile Disc, Recordable) substrate is about 3 seconds. The cooling water flows continuously, and its temperature is carefully regulated. Attempts have been made to reduce the total cycle time by providing auxiliary heating to the mould parts. When the mould parts are not just heated by the inflowing hot resin, the temperature of the cooling water can be lowered, since the auxiliary heating compensates, during the injection phase, for the lower cooling water temperature. It can therefore still be ensured that the resin fills the cavity completely and that any surface structure is replicated before the resin reaches its glass transition region. An injection-moulding device, comprising at least a first (1) and a second (3) mould part, defining a mould cavity, wherein at least one of the mould parts comprises cooling ducts (5), for cooling the mould part in the vicinity of a mould cavity surface (11), and heating means (18), for heating the mould part in the vicinity of the mould cavity surface during a part of a process cycle,  An injection-moulding device according to claim 1, comprising a valve, said valve switching the coolant flow off during a part of the process cycle. An injection-moulding device according to claim 2, wherein the coolant flow is arranged to be switched off as the mould parts are separated to remove a produced object. An injection-moulding device according to any of the preceding claims, wherein said heating means comprise an inductive coil (18), a part of which is placed in said cooling duct (16). An injection-moulding device according to any of the preceding claims, wherein said mould part comprises a top member (15) facing the mould cavity surface (11) and a carrier member (17) placed beneath the top member as seen from the mould cavity surface, and said heating means comprises an inductive coil (18) placed in said carrier part, wherein the top member resistivity is lower than 1.5*10 An injection-moulding device according to claim 2, wherein said cooling ducts are in the form of interleaved plane spirals. A method for injection-moulding, wherein liquid resin is injected into a mould cavity, defined by first and second mould parts wherein at least one of the mould parts comprises cooling ducts, for cooling the mould part in the vicinity of the object cavity, and heating means, for heating the mould part in the vicinity of the mould cavity during a part of a process cycle,  A method according to claim 7, wherein the coolant flow is turned off during the phase when the heating takes place. An information carrier of the optic, magnetic, or magneto-optic type, which is produced by means of an injection-moulding device as claimed in any of claims 1-6 or by a method as claimed in any of claims 7-8. A lightguide plate, which is produced by means of an injection-moulding device as claimed in claim 1-6 or by a method as claimed in claim 7. An injection-moulding device, comprising at least a first (1) and a second (3) mould part, defining a mould cavity, wherein at least one of the mould parts comprises cooling ducts (5), for cooling the mould part in the vicinity of a mould cavity surface (11), and heating means (18), for heating the mould part in the vicinity of the mould cavity surface during a part of a process cycle,  <seperator>EP-1548836-A1<id_sep>subclassG01Tsubclass groupH01L33slash00group classH04class sectionHsection groupG01T1slash00group subgroupH04N5slash32subgroup subgroupH01L31slash103subgroup subgroupH01L31slash102subgroup sectionGsection classG01class classH01class subclassH04Nsubclass subclassH01Lsubclass subgroupH01L31slash0236subgroup subgroupH01L27slash146subgroup subgroupG01T1slash20subgroup subgroupH01L27slash144subgroup subgroupH01L27slash14subgroup PHOTODIODE ARRAY AND RADIATION DETECTOR With photodiode array 1, light-incident surface side recessed parts 7, formed by thinning from a light-incident surface side, are aligned in array form, and opposite surface side recessed parts 11, formed by the thinning of regions, corresponding to regions at which light-incident surface side recessed parts 7 are formed, from an opposite surface side with respect to the light-incident surface, are aligned in array form. By pn junctions 3 being formed at bottom parts of opposite surface side recessed parts 11, pn junction type photodiodes are aligned in array form.  Technical Field This invention concerns a photodiode array, a method of manufacturing the same, and a radiation detector. Background Art In order to mount a photodiode array for CT, mounting in three-dimensional directions is required. To carry out mounting in three dimensions, signals must be output from the side opposite a light-incident surface, and thus generally, a back-illuminated photodiode array is used. With a back-illuminated photodiode array, if the distance between pn junction parts and the light-incident surface is large, carriers generated inside a substrate recombine in the process of moving to the pn junction parts and cannot be taken out in the form of signals. Thus in order to improve the detection sensitivity, the distance between pn junction parts and the light-incident surface must be made as small as possible. A back-illuminated photodiode array, with which this distance is made small, has been proposed (Japanese Published Unexamined Patent Application No. Hei 7-333348). Fig. 15 is a sectional side view of this photodiode array. With this photodiode array 101, p-type diffused layers 105 of prismatic shape are formed in an n-type layer 103 from one side of a substrate. However, since p-type diffused layers 105 are formed by impurity implantation, it is difficult to form impurity layers uniformly to a thickness with which an adequate sensitivity can be obtained. The above-mentioned photodiode array thus has the disadvantage of being difficult to manufacture. Also, if the entire photodiode array is made thin, mechanical strength cannot be maintained and breakage occurs readily in subsequent processes. A method of making the photodiode array a thin film at parts may thus be considered. That is, a method, wherein just the regions at which the photodiodes are formed are made thin to make the distance between the pn junction parts and the light-incident surface small while maintaining the mechanical strength, may be considered. Fig. 16 is a sectional side view of such a photodiode array. With this photodiode array, just the regions of an n-type layer 103, at which p-type diffused layers 105 are formed, are made thin from the side of a light-incident surface, and the regions that are not thinned are kept at the thickness of the original semiconductor substrate as frame parts to maintain the mechanical strength. With this photodiode array, recessed parts of the n-type substrate are formed from the side (back side), opposite the side at which pn junction parts are formed (front side), at positions corresponding to the respective pn junctions. That is, one recessed part is formed in correspondence to one pn junction pixel. A protruding part is thus remained between a pn junction pixel and an adjacent pn junction pixel. Disclosure of the Invention However, when the above-described photodiode array is to be used as a radiation detector, the protruding parts of the photodiode array are attached by suction to a collet and flip-chip bonded to a mounting substrate, or a scintillator is put in contact with the protruding parts of the photodiode array. In this process, the contacted surfaces of the protruding parts undergo mechanical damage, causing increases of the leakage current and the dark current due to the generation of carriers. A photodiode array comprising:  The photodiode array according to Claim 1,    wherein the pn junctions extend from the bottom parts of the opposite surface side recessed parts to opposite surface side frame parts surrounding the opposite surface side recessed parts. The photodiode array according to Claim 1,    wherein the area of the bottom surface of each of the light-incident surface side recessed parts is greater than the area of the bottom surface of each of the opposite surface side recessed parts. The photodiode array according to Claim 1,    wherein high impurity concentration regions are formed in the light-incident surface side frame parts surrounding the light-incident surface side recessed part. The photodiode array according to Claim 1,    wherein the light-incident surface side frame parts surrounding the light-incident surface side recessed parts are formed in a lattice form as viewed from the direction of incidence of light. The photodiode array according to Claim 1,    wherein electrode pads, for taking out the outputs of photodiodes formed of the pn junctions, are equipped on the opposite surface side frame parts surrounding the opposite surface side recessed parts. The photodiode array according to Claim 6,    wherein wiring electrodes, which pass along side surface parts of the opposite surface side recessed parts and electrically connect the photodiodes and the electrode pads, are equipped. A radiation detector comprising: the photodiode array according to any of Claims 1 through 7; and a scintillator, positioned in front of the surface of incidence of light onto the photodiode array. A photodiode array comprising:  A photodiode array comprising:  A photodiode array comprising:  The photodiode according to Claim 11, wherein an etching stop layer is interposed between the semiconductor substrate and the semiconductor layer. The photodiode according to Claim 11, wherein an insulating layer is interposed between the semiconductor substrate and the semiconductor layer. The photodiode according to Claim 11, wherein the crystal orientations of the semiconductor substrate and the semiconductor layer are crossed at the interface at which the semiconductor substrate and the semiconductor layer are in mutual contact. A photodiode array manufacturing method comprising:  The photodiode array manufacturing method according to Claim 15, wherein the first step comprises the steps of:  The photodiode array manufacturing method according to Claim 15, wherein the first step comprises the steps of:  The photodiode array manufacturing method according to Claim 15, wherein the first step comprises the steps of:  The photodiode array manufacturing method according to Claim 15, wherein the first step comprises the steps of:  The photodiode array manufacturing method according to Claim 15, wherein the first step comprises the steps of:  A radiation detector comprising: A radiation detector comprising:  <seperator>EP-1365204-A1<id_sep>sectionBsection subgroupF28F9slash04subgroup groupB23K33slash00group sectionFsection subgroupB23K101slash14subgroup subgroupF28F9slash02subgroup classF28class subgroupB23K1slash008subgroup groupB23K1slash00group subclassB23Ksubclass classB23class subgroupF28F9slash26subgroup subclassF28Fsubclass HEAT EXCHANGER A heat exchanger for performing heat exchange of a medium by heat conducted to tubes (210) and fins (220), the heat exchanger is configured by assembling the tubes, the fins, tanks (300) and a connector (400) and heating them in a furnace to be brazed into one body, wherein the connector is made of aluminum or its alloy and has a seating face to be brazed to the outer surface of the tank, and when it is determined that the connector has a surface area of X [cm The present invention relates to a heat exchanger which is comprised of tubes for flowing a medium, fins attached to the tubes, tanks to which ends of the tubes are connected, and connectors disposed on the tanks, and performs heat exchange of the medium by heat conducted to the tubes and the fins. A heat exchanger such as a condenser of a refrigeration cycle or a radiator of automobiles is configured by alternately stacking a plurality of tubes and a plurality of fins to form a core and connecting ends of the tubes to the tanks. A medium is introduced into the inside through one of connectors disposed on the tank, flowned through the tubes while performing heat exchange with heat conducted to the core, and discharged to the outside from the other connector disposed on the tank. Generally, this type of heat exchanger is produced by assembling the tubes, fins, tanks and connectors and heating the assembly to braze into one body in a furnace. And, to braze in the furnace, a brazing material and flux are previously disposed on required potions of the respective members. To heat in the furnace, it is important that the respective members are heated as uniformly as possible so to braze the entire heat exchanger uniformly. In this connection, the connectors have a disadvantage that heat conduction is quite slow and it takes time to braze as compared with the tubes and the fins which are formed to be thin. The present invention was achieved in view of the above-described circumstances, and an object of the invention is to provide a heat exchanger which can have the connectors brazed efficiently. The invention described in Claim 1 is a heat exchanger which comprises tubes for flowing a medium, fins mounted on the tubes, tanks to which the ends of the tubes are connected and connectors disposed on the tanks, and performs heart exchange of the medium by heat conducted to the tubes and the fins, wherein the heat exchanger is formed by assembling the tubes, the fins, the tanks and the connectors and heating them in a furnace to braze into one body, the connectors are made of aluminum or its alloy and having a seating face to be brazed to the outer surface of the tanks, and when it is assumed that the connectors have a surface area of X [cm First, the connectors conduct heat very slowly as compared with the tubes and the fins which are formed thin, so that heat transmission is improved by securing a large surface area against a volume. Here, when it is assumed that a certain object has a surface area X and a volume Y, a shape having minimum X against Y is a sphere. And, when it is assumed that the sphere has a radius r, they are in the following relationship: And, the present invention determines the surface areas of the connectors to 1.5 times or more a sphere based on the surface area of the sphere having a volume equal to that of the connectors as a standard. Therefore, the surface area of the connector is 1.5 times or more the right side of the expression 5 ○ and indicated by the expression 1 ○. A heat exchanger which comprises tubes for flowing a medium, fins mounted on the tubes, tanks to which the ends of the tubes are connected and connectors disposed on the tanks, and performs heart exchange of the medium by heat conducted to the tubes and the fins, wherein:  The heat exchanger according to Claim 1, wherein the connector is provided with a pipe section which is protruded from the seating face for insertion into the tank. The heat exchanger according to Claim 1 or 2, wherein the connector is provided with a bolt attaching section for screwing or inserting a bolt for connection of an outer passage. <seperator>EP-1535518-A1<id_sep>subgroupA23B4slash06subgroup subgroupA23B4slash08subgroup subgroupA23L1slash314subgroup subgroupA23L1slash31subgroup subgroupA23L1slash325subgroup subclassA23Lsubclass sectionAsection subclassA23Bsubclass classA23class ADHESIVE FOR LIVESTOCK MEAT AND SEA FOOD AND PROCESS FOR PRODUCING BONDING SHAPED FOOD WITH THE ADHESIVE An adhesive for animal and fishery products comprising a transglutaminase, a milk protein powder and one or more salts selected from sodium carbonate, potassium carbonate, trisodium phosphate, tripotassium phosphate and tetrapotassium pyrophosphate. The present invention relates to an adhesive for animal meat and fishery products for producing adhered and formed (restructured) foods by adhering food raw materials such as animal and fishery meats, and a process for producing adhered and restructured foods using the adhesive. In producing adhered foods by adhering and restructuring food raw materials such as animal and fishery meats, various methods have been so far employed. Examples thereof include a method of using a protein material or thickening polysaccharides as a paste, a method of using these materials in combination with alkaline materials, and the like. However, most of these methods have been functionally insufficient in view of a food adhesive because the adhesion strength is unsatisfactory and the appearance, taste and flavor of food raw materials are notably impaired. As a method for solving these problems, there is a method using a transglutaminase-based adhesive made of a combination of a transglutaminase as an enzyme and caseins. This method makes it possible to produce adhered and restructured foods in which the appearance, taste and flavor of food raw materials are not impaired at all. However, a transglutaminase as a hardening agent of the transglutaminase-based adhesive is an enzyme, and the obtained adhesion strength depends on the amount of a transglutaminase, the reaction temperature and reaction time. With respect to these parameters, the use of a transglutaminase in a large amount is disadvantageous in view of the production costs, and an increase in the reaction temperature is undesirable in view of sanitary control such as maintenance of freshness in case raw materials are fresh raw materials such as animal and fishery meats. Accordingly, when a reaction is conducted with a small amount of a transglutaminase at a low temperature, it is required to take a long adhesion time. However, a long adhesion time is also problematic in view of production efficiency and sanitary control. An adhesive disclosed in JP-A-6-284867 is excellent because the practical use is possible in a reaction at 5°C for 1 hour. However, in an actual production site, a food adhesive which exhibits a higher adhesion strength in a shorter reaction time has been in demand for the purposes of further increased productivity and further improved sanitation. Especially the production of adhered and restructured foods of animal and fishery products for which it is hard to employ a long reaction time because of the hygiene issue has strongly required reduction of the reaction time, especially reduction of the reaction time in a method in which an adhesive powder is applied for adhesion (hereinafter referred to as "a powder sprinkling method"). The invention is to provide a transglutaminase-containing adhesive preparation which enables stronger adhesion in a shorter reaction time than in the prior techniques without increasing the mixing amount of a transglutaminase and without impairing the appearance, taste and flavor of food raw materials, especially animal and fishery products. The present inventors have found that by incorporating, in addition to a transglutaminase and a milk protein powder, a salt that shows alkalinity meeting specific conditions (hereinafter referred to as an alkaline salt), the reaction time required until practical adhesion strength is obtained is shortened and higher adhesion strength is obtained. This finding has led to the completion of the invention. Especially in the powder sprinkling method, its effect is outstanding. An adhesive for animal and fishery products comprising a transglutaminase, a milk protein powder and a salt of which the pH of a 1% (w/w) aqueous solution is at least 10 and less than 13 and the solubility at 20°C is at least 20% (w/w) and less than 100% (w/w). The adhesive for animal and fishery products according to claim 1, wherein the pH of a 2% aqueous solution of the adhesive is at least 9 and less than 10. The adhesive for animal and fishery products according to claim 1, wherein the salt is one or more selected from the group of sodium carbonate, trisodium phosphate and tripotassium phosphate. An adhesive for animal and fishery products comprising a transglutaminase, a milk protein powder and a salt of which the pH of a 1% (w/w) aqueous solution is at least 10 and less than 13 and the solubility at 20°C is at least 100% (w/w), the pH of a 2% (w/w) aqueous solution of the adhesive being at least 7.5 and less than 10. The adhesive for animal and fishery products according to claim 4, wherein the salt is one or more selected from sodium carbonate and tetrapotassium pyrophosphate. The adhesive for animal and fishery products according to claims 1 to 5, wherein the average particle size of the salt is from 20 to 150 µm and particles having a size of 250 µm or less occupy 80% (w/w) or more. A process for producing an adhered and restructured food by using the adhesive for animal and fishery products according to claims 1 to 6. <seperator>EP-1817969-A1<id_sep>classA43class subgroupA43B17slash10subgroup groupA43B17slash00group groupA43B23slash00group subgroupA43B23slash07subgroup subclassA43Bsubclass sectionAsection Odour-free footwear and insole The upper (1) incorporates internally a lining (5) of a textile or similar nature, with small areas (6) impregnated with a deodorant product and distributed evenly over its surface, which lining is breathable or semi-breathable. For its part the insole (4) has an upper layer permeable both to air and to moisture, an intermediate layer which also constitutes a physical support for an antibacterial agent and an also permeable bottom layer. It is thereby possible to enhance the comfort of the footwear.  OBJECT OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to footwear, of any design or configuration, but half closed or fully closed, that is of the type of that which is prone to produce sweating of the user's feet, and which to such an end are provided with deodorant means which neutralize the unpleasant smell that the bacteria produce which develop in the perspiration in question. The invention also concerns the complementary insole for said footwear, both if it is attached to the same, and if it constitutes a physically independent element. The object of the invention is to enhance very substantially the deodorant effect both of the footwear itself and of the complementary insole. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION It is well known that perspiration of the feet constitutes in many cases a suitable culture broth for the proliferation of bacteria which produce unpleasant smells, which should be suppressed for obvious social reasons. To resolve this problem insoles are used at the present time, in some cases integrated in the original footwear and in others as an independent complement which can be fitted later in the same, so that such insoles, with different structural conceptions, incorporate a deodorant agent inside, such as activated carbon, among others. This type of insole, perfectly valid from the functional and theoretical point of view, presents problems in practice consisting of an insufficient effectiveness, especially in the case of users that suffer severe sweating of their feet, wherein the sweating is not limited to the area of the sole or support of the foot, but instead extends over the whole surface of the same. Evidently in these cases the substance utilized as active agent against the bacteria producing the unpleasant smell, being located on the insole, does not affect more than the bottom of the foot, being inoperative with regard to the rest of the surface thereof. Evidently the problem remains in the case of using simple deodorant products on the insole, instead of active substances against the bacteria producing the unpleasant smell. DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION The footwear which the invention proposes, jointly with its complementary insole, resolves in a fully satisfactory manner the problem outlined above, assuring optimum functional benefits, that is, assuring the disappearance of unpleasant smells both at the level of the sole and from the rest of the surface of the foot. For this reason and in more specific terms, the footwear disclosed, which will be incorporated like any conventional footwear by means of the combination of a sole and an upper, which can be joined indistinctly by means of stitching or by adhesive, centers its characteristics in the fact that the aforementioned upper is fitted internally with a kind of lining, made of a textile, adequately fixed to the upper itself, for example by means of adhesive, said lining incorporating an appropriate odorizing product which impregnates it suitably. Specifically said odorizing product can affect the lining mentioned over the whole extension of the same, or in differentiated particular areas separated from each other, in order to minimize its own odorizing effect limiting it so that it does not redound negatively in the environment of the footwear, that is to achieve a delicate and barely perceptible odorization, in the precise and necessary degree to counteract the unpleasant smells due to the sweating of the foot, especially in the upper area of the same. - Odour-free footwear and insole, constituted by an upper and a sole or base, with any configuration, joined to each other by means of stitching, welding or by any other means, in the interior of which is housed the deodorant insole, coupled movably or immovably to the footwear,  - Odour-free footwear and insole, according to claim 1,  - Odour-free footwear and insole, according to claim 1,  - Odour-free footwear and insole, according to claims 1 and 3,  <seperator>EP-1288655-A2<id_sep>sectionGsection subclassG01Nsubclass subgroupG01N27slash407subgroup classG01class Gas sensor A hydrogen gas sensor is configured such that a first electrode 3 is provided on one surface of a proton conduction layer 1; a second electrode 5 and a reference electrode 7 are provided on the other surface of the proton conduction layer 1 in opposition to the first electrode 3; and these components are supported in a support element 10 consisting of a first support element 8 and a second support element 9. The first support element 8, which partially constitutes the support element 10, has a diffusion controlling portion 19 for establishing communication between an ambient atmosphere and a first recess 11 (thus the first electrode 3). The diffusion controlling portion 19 is a small hole adapted to introduce to the side toward the first electrode 3 a fuel gas (thus hydrogen gas contained therein), which is a gas to be measured, and to control diffusion of the gas. The diffusion controlling portion 19 is disposed away from an end portion T of the second electrode 5 located on the side toward the reference electrode 7, in the direction away from the reference electrode 7. The ratio (area ratio) S1/S2 between the first area S1 (the area of the meshed portion in FIG. 1) and the second area S2 (the area of the hatched portion in FIG. 1) is less than 0.35, where the first area S1 is the area of a portion of a first electrode 3 on which the projected image of a second electrode 5 is not superimposed when the second electrode 5 is projected onto the first electrode 3, and the second area S2 is the area of a portion of the second electrode 5 which is superimposed on the first electrode 3 when the second electrode 5 is projected onto the first electrode 3. That is, the arrangement and respective areas of the first electrode 3 and the second electrode 5 are determined such that, when the second electrode 5 is projected onto the first electrode 3, the projected image of the second electrode 5 falls within the first electrode 3, and the area ratio S1/S2 is less than 0.35.  The present invention relates to a gas sensor such as a hydrogen sensor for measuring the concentration of hydrogen gas in a fuel gas for use in a fuel cell. In response to concerns about global environmental pollution, in recent years intensive studies have been conducted on fuel cells for use as high-efficiency, clean power sources. Among such fuel cells, a polymer electrolyte fuel cell (PEFC) shows promise for automobile use and household use, by virtue of its inherent advantages, such as operation at low temperature and high output density. A promising fuel gas for use in PEFC is a reformed gas. In this connection, in order to enhance efficiency and the like factor, a sensor capable of directly detecting hydrogen in a reformed gas must be provided. Since this sensor is used in a hydrogen rich atmosphere, an operating temperature thereof must be low (about 100°C or lower). Such a sensor of low-temperature operation type is proposed in, for example, European Patent No. 1103807A2. As shown in FIG. 9, the proposed sensor employs a proton conduction layer 101 formed from a polymer electrolyte and is configured such that a first electrode 102, a second electrode 103, and a reference electrode 104 are disposed on the corresponding surfaces of the proton conduction layer 101. However, since the proposed sensor is configured such that the first electrode 102, which is disposed in opposition to the second electrode 103 while the proton conduction layer 101 is held therebetween, extends to a region where a corresponding portion thereof is not in opposition to the second electrode 103; i.e., such that the first electrode 102 is disposed in opposition to not only the second electrode 103 but also the reference electrode 104, in the course of pumping hydrogen (specifically, hydrogen ions H Further, in this sensor, the potential difference between the first electrode 102 and the reference electrode 104 is controlled at a constant level. In this connection, the controlled potential difference or voltage is determined according to average hydrogen concentration on the first electrode 102 and hydrogen concentration on the reference electrode 104. Therefore, as in the case of this sensor, when the first electrode 102 involves a portion which encounters difficulty in pumping hydrogen, the hydrogen concentration of the portion becomes high. Thus, control for lowering the average hydrogen concentration causes excessive pumping as compared with the usual case; as a result, the first electrode 102 involves a portion where hydrogen concentration is excessively low. In the proposed sensor, as shown in FIG. 9, a part of the diffusion controlling portion 105 is located rightward of the end of the second electrode 103 which is located on the side toward the reference electrode 104, thus raising a problem in that hydrogen of high concentration is introduced from an ambient hydrogen-rich atmosphere to a portion of the first electrode 102 which encounters difficulty in pumping hydrogen. Thus, as in the above-described case, control for lowering the average hydrogen concentration causes the first electrode 102 to involve a portion where hydrogen concentration is relatively low. A gas sensor, comprising a proton conduction layer (1); a first electrode (3), a second electrode (5), and a reference electrode (7) provided in contact with the proton conduction layer; and a diffusion controlling portion (19) provided between the first electrode and an atmosphere containing a gas to be measured;    wherein an object gas component contained in the gas to be measured which is introduced from the atmosphere via the diffusion controlling portion is dissociatable, decomposable, or reactable through application of voltage between the first electrode and the second electrode such that a potential difference between the first electrode and the reference electrode becomes constant, to thereby generate protons, and concentration of the object gas component is obtainable on the basis of a limiting current generated as a result of the generated protons being pumped out via the proton conduction layer from the first electrode to the second electrode; and    wherein the first electrode and the second electrode are disposed in opposition to each other while the proton conduction layer is held therebetween, and the diffusion controlling portion is located away from an end portion (T) of the second electrode in a direction toward the reference electrode and on a side opposite to the reference electrode. A gas sensor as described in claim 1, wherein the diffusion controlling portion is located at least 1.5 mm away from said end portion of the second electrode toward the reference electrode. A gas sensor according to claim 1 or 2, wherein a first area S1 is an area of a portion of the first electrode on which a projected image of the second electrode is not superimposed when the second electrode is projected onto the first electrode, and a second area S2 is an area of a portion of the second electrode which is superimposed on the first electrode when the second electrode is projected onto the first electrode, and a ratio S1/S2 between first area S1 and second area S2 is less than 0.35. A gas sensor as described in claim 3, wherein the first electrode and the second electrode are disposed such that, when the first electrode or the second electrode, whichever is smaller in area, is projected onto the other electrode, a projected image of the electrode having the smaller area is present within the electrode having the greater area. A gas sensor, comprising a proton conduction layer (1); a first electrode (3), a second electrode (5), and a reference electrode (7) provided in contact with the proton conduction layer; and a diffusion controlling portion (19) provided between the first electrode and an atmosphere containing a gas to be measured;    wherein an object gas component contained in the gas to be measured which is introduced from the atmosphere via the diffusion controlling portion is dissociatable, decomposable, or reactable through application of voltage between the first electrode and the second electrode such that a constant potential difference is produced between the first electrode and the reference electrode, to thereby generate protons, and concentration of the object gas component is obtainable on the basis of a limiting current generated as a result of the generated protons being pumped out via the proton conduction layer from the first electrode to the second electrode; and    wherein the first electrode and the second electrode are disposed in opposition to each other while the proton conduction layer is held therebetween, and wherein a first area S1 is an area of a portion of the first electrode on which a projected image of the second electrode is not superimposed when the second electrode is projected onto the first electrode, and a second area S2 is an area of a portion of the second electrode which is superimposed on the first electrode when the second electrode is projected onto the first electrode, and a ratio S1/S2 between said first area S1 and said second area S2 is less than 0.35. A gas sensor as described in claim 5, wherein the first electrode and the second electrode are disposed such that, when the first electrode or the second electrode, whichever is smaller in area, is projected onto the other electrode, a projected image of the electrode having the smaller area is present within the electrode having the greater area. A gas sensor according to claim 5 or 6, wherein the diffusion controlling portion is located away from an end portion T of the second electrode in a direction toward the reference electrode, and on a side opposite to the reference electrode. A gas sensor as described in claim 7, wherein the diffusion controlling portion is disposed at least 1.5 mm away from said end portion of the second electrode toward the reference electrode. A gas sensor as described in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the gas sensor is a hydrogen gas sensor for measuring hydrogen gas concentration. A gas sensor as described in claim 9, wherein the gas sensor is used for measuring the concentration of hydrogen gas in a fuel gas for use in a polymer electrolyte fuel cell. <seperator>EP-1515450-A1<id_sep>classH04class sectionHsection subclassH04Bsubclass subgroupH04B1slash44subgroup classH01class subgroupH01P1slash10subgroup subgroupH01P1slash15subgroup subclassH01Psubclass Antenna switching circuit A number of high isolation switching circuits for selectively connecting a common antenna port to a TX port 2 or an RX port 3 of a multi-band cellular handset are described. One such circuit (fig. 5) includes first and second PIN diodes D1 and D2, the first diode D1 having its anode connected to the TX port 2 and its cathode connected to a first node X, which is connected both to the antenna port and to one side of a phase shifting network P1. The other side of the phase shifting network is connected, via a first impedance transformation device (transformer) T1, to a second node Y. The second diode D2 has its anode connected to the second node Y and its cathode connected to ground via a resonant circuit L1/C1, and the second node Y is connected to the RX port 3 via a second impedance transformation circuit T2. The first impedance transformation circuit T1 lowers the impedance of the circuit at the second node Y when measured at the first node X and the second impedance transformation circuit T2 raises the impedance of the RX port when measured at the second node Y. In other circuits (figs. 9 and 10) there are three PIN diodes, the first diode being connected as stated above, and the second and third diodes being connected in parallel to the second node.  This invention relates to a switching circuit for use at the antenna of a multi-band cellular handset to select between the TX and RX modes of the bands. The recent trend in cellular communications handset technology has been towards an increase in the proliferation of multi-band GSM handsets. For European GSM networks, handsets which operate on the EGSM cellular system and the DCS cellular system have become common; for American GSM networks, handsets which operate on the AGSM and PCS cellular systems have become common; and for world-wide applications, handsets which operate on three or four of the AGSM EGSM, DCS and PCS cellular systems have become popular - see Table 1. For the GSM cellular system, TX and RX signals are not processed by the handset simultaneously; therefore, an electronic switching circuit is used to interface the various TX and RX circuits of the handset with a single antenna. This type of switching circuit is typically referred to as an Antenna Switch Module (ASM). Examples of dual band ASM are disclosed in EP1126624A3 and US20010027119A1. A circuit schematic of a typical dual band ASM is shown in fig. 1. This module includes an antenna port 1, a pair of TX inputs 2, 2', and a pair of RX outputs 3, 3'. The antenna port is connected to the input of a diplexer DPX, which is a three port device that divides the ASM into two sections: a low-band section LB and a high-band section HB. The high-band section HB includes an RX output 3 and a TX circuit which comprises a TX input 2 and a TX low pass filter LPF The low-band section LB similarly includes an RX output 3' and a TX circuit which comprises a TX input 2' and a TX low pass filter LPF The ASM of fig. 1 is readily converted to a dual-band front end module (FEM), for operation on the EGSM and DCS cellular bands, by the addition of a DCS bandpass filter at the RX port 3, and by the further addition of an EGSM bandpass filter at the RX low-band port 3'. Such a circuit is disclosed in EP01089449A2. Similarly, the ASM of fig. 1 is readily converted to a triple band FEM, for operation on the EGSM, DCS and PCS cellular bands, by the addition of a DCS/PCS duplexer at the RX port 3, and by the further addition of an EGSM bandpass filter at the RX low-band port 3' - an example of such a circuit is disclosed in US20020032038A1. A diode in the on state ideally has zero resistance and zero reactance, and hence will be electrically invisible to RF signals which are fed through it; by contrast, a diode in the off state should have a very high impedance, and hence will appear like an open circuit, and will block RF signals which are fed to it. In practice, a diode in the on state has a non-zero resistance R The SP2T switches which are used to select between the TX low-band and RX low-band in the low-band section of the ASM, and to select between the TX high-band and the RX high-band in the high-band section of the ASM, are typically implemented using a pair of PIN diodes and a quarter wave phase shifting network. Such a switch is illustrated in fig. 2 of US04637065. The operation of an SP2T PIN switch can be understood by looking at fig. 3, which represents the high-band section HB of the circuit of fig. 1, excluding the low pass filter LPF A high isolation switching circuit for selectively connecting a common antenna port to a TX port or an RX port of a multi-band cellular handset, the switching circuit including first and second solid state diodes, wherein the first diode has its anode connected to the TX port and its cathode connected to a first node which is connected both to the antenna port and to one side of a phase shifting and impedance transformation circuit to a second node, wherein the second diode has its anode connected to the second node and its cathode connected to ground via a resonant circuit, and wherein the second node is connected to the RX port via an impedance transformation device, the phase shifting and impedance transformation circuit lowering the impedance of the circuit at the second node when measured at the first node and the impedance transformation device raising the impedance of the RX port when measured at the second node. A switching circuit as claimed in claim 1, wherein the phase shifting and impedance transformation circuit comprises a phase shifting circuit and a second impedance transformation device connected between the phase shifting circuit and the second node. A switching circuit as claimed in claim 2, wherein the impedance transformation devices are respective transformers. A switching circuit as claimed in claim 2, wherein the impedance transformation devices are respective LC circuits. A switching circuit as claimed in claim 4, wherein the LC circuits share a common capacitor. A switching circuit as claimed in any one of claims 2 to 5, wherein the firstmentioned and second impedance transformation devices approximately double and halve the relevant impedances respectively. A switching circuit as claimed in claim 1, wherein the phase shifting and impedance transformation circuit combines the functions of phase shifting and impedance transformation. A switching circuit as claimed in claim 7, wherein the impedance transformation device is an LC circuit. A switching circuit as claimed in claim 8, wherein the LC circuit shares a common capacitor with the phase shifting and impedance transformation circuit. A switching circuit as claimed in claim 7, 8 or 9, wherein the phase shifting and impedance transformation circuit and the second impedance transformation device approximately halve and double the relevant impedances respectively. A switching circuit as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the solid state diodes are PIN diodes. A high isolation switching circuit for selectively connecting a common antenna port to a TX port or an RX port of a multi-band cellular handset, the switching circuit including first, second and third solid state diodes, wherein the first diode has its anode connected to the TX port and its cathode connected to a first node which is connected both to the antenna port and to one side of a phase shifting network, wherein the other side of the phase shifting network is connected to a second node, and wherein the second and third diodes are connected in parallel to the second node, the second node further being connected to the RX port. A switching circuit as claimed in claim 12, wherein the second and third diodes have their anodes connected in common to the second node and their cathodes connected in common to one side of a resonant circuit, the other side of which is connected to ground. A switching circuit as claimed in claim 12, wherein the second diode has its anode connected to the second node on the other side of the first phase shifting network and its cathode connected to ground via a first resonant circuit, wherein the third diode has its anode connected to the second node via a second phase shifting network and its cathode connected to ground via a second resonant circuit, the opposite end of the second phase shifting network to the second node being connected to the RX port. A switching circuit as claimed in claim 12, 13 or 14, wherein the solid state diodes are PIN diodes. <seperator>EP-1832953-A2<id_sep>groupG06F1slash00group classH04class sectionHsection sectionGsection subclassG06Fsubclass classG06class subclassH04Lsubclass groupG06F21slash00group subgroupH04L29slash06subgroup subgroupG06F21slash24subgroup groupG06F15slash00group subgroupH04L29slash08subgroup Method and apparatus for managing a peer-to-peer collaboration system Users and devices in a peer-to-peer collaboration system can join a management domain in which members are administered as a group by a centralized management server operated by an enterprise. In response to a administrator request to join the management domain, the user downloads an injectible identity file containing a definition of the managed user/device into the user system. The user then joins the managed domain by associating the injected identity with their actual identity. Once a user or device is part of a management domain, that user or device receives license rights and policy restrictions that are associated with the domain. In return, the management server interacts with the individual peer-to-peer collaboration systems to enable the enterprise to monitor the enterprise to monitor the usage of, and control the behavior of, that specific identity within the peer-to-peer collaboration system.  FIELD OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to peer-to-peer collaboration systems and, in particular to methods and apparatus for gathering usage statistics for managing such systems. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION New collaboration models have been developed which operate in a "peer-to-peer" fashion without the intervention of a central authority. One of these latter models is built upon direct connections between users in a shared private "space". In accordance with this model, users can be invited into, enter and leave a shared space during an ongoing collaboration session between other users. Each user has an application program called an "activity", which is operable in his or her personal computer system, communication appliance or other network-capable device which generates a shared "space" in that user's computer. The activity responds to user interactions within the shared space by generating data change requests, called "deltas." The activity also has a data-change engine component that maintains a local data copy and performs the changes to the data requested by the deltas. The deltas are distributed from one user to another over a network, such as the Internet, by a dynamics manager component. When the deltas are received by another user activity in the shared space, the local data copy maintained by that activity is also updated. Subprograms within the activity program called "tools" perform various specific tasks. For example, an activity program might present various computer games. Within the overall game activity, tools might be available for a chess game and a tic-tac-toe game. Tools are defined by a template that is a document written in Extended Markup Language or XML. The XML template has various sections or tagged blocks that define various attributes of the tool that it defines. An application constructed in accordance with this model consists of a collection of software components and resources, all of which are targeted for execution on a particular device. As used herein the term "components" will be used to refer to both the software code and the resources that are required for an application. This type of collaboration system is described in detail in U.S. patent application serial The aforementioned collaboration system has several specific advantages over centralized systems. These advantages include reduced centralized management resources, reduced server storage resources, and optimized computing resources. For example, in many systems, teams of co-workers share information in a shared space. In a system that can have many such co-worker teams, any number of which could be actively online at any given time, due to the resources consumed, administrators would have to police who could and could not create spaces. Similarly, the administrators would have to backup the shared spaces. Further, since most of the time no single member of a team assumes the responsibility of declaring the collaboration to be "over," administrators would have to prod workers to delete their shared spaces. However, in a peer-to-peer collaborative environment, each member of a coworker team makes use of his or her own local computing resources, without any worst-case capacity planning necessary. There is no need to have bandwidth, processing and storage enough to support the entire universe of users, only enough to support his or her own usage. In addition, when an individual user finds that stored assets no longer merit storage on a local machine, he or she can delete them without having to ask permission of the rest of the team. This eliminates the administrative burden of managing access to services, backing up resources that may be obsolete, and tracking down abusers of the system. A method for managing a peer-to-peer collaboration system in which users having identities are directly connected to each other in a shared private space by client software operating in devices and wherein the users can communicate with a management server using the client software, the method comprising:  The method of claim 1 wherein the managed entity is a managed user and the definition information file is an injectible identity file. The method of claim 1 wherein the managed entity is a managed device and the definition information file is a device information file. The method of claim 3 wherein the device information file is a Windows REG file. The method of claim 1 further comprising:  The method of claim 1 further comprising:  The method of claim 1 further comprising:  The method of claim 7 wherein step (I) comprises downloading and installing licensed components from the management server to the client software which components are on the server list and are not on the client list. The method of claim 7 wherein step (I) further comprises revoking licenses in the client software of components are on the client list and are not on the server list. The method of claim 7 wherein steps (h) to (I) are repeated periodically. The method of claim 1 further comprising:  The method of claim 11 wherein the event notifications include error notifications. The method of claim 11 wherein event notifications and statistical information are temporarily stored in a memory located at a client site. Apparatus for managing a peer-to-peer collaboration system in which users having identities are directly connected to each other in a shared private space by client software operating in devices and wherein the users can communicate with a management server using the client software, the apparatus comprising:  The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the managed entity is a managed user and the definition information file is an injectible identity file. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the managed entity is a managed device and the definition information file is a device information file. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein the device information file is a Windows REG file. The apparatus of claim 14 further comprising:  The apparatus of claim 14 further comprising:  The apparatus of claim 14 further comprising:  The apparatus of claim 20 wherein the adjusting and synchronizing mechanism comprises a download manager that downloads and installs licensed components from the management server to the client software which components are on the server list and are not on the client list. The apparatus of claim 21 wherein the adjusting and synchronizing mechanism further comprises a mechanism that revokes licenses in the client software of components are on the client list and are not on the server list. The apparatus of claim 21 wherein the adjusting and synchronizing mechanism operates periodically. The apparatus of claim 14 further comprising:  The apparatus of claim 24 wherein the event notifications include error notifications. The method of claim 24 wherein event notifications and statistical information are temporarily stored in a memory located at a client site. A computer program product for managing a peer-to-peer collaboration system in which users having identities are directly connected to each other in a shared private space by client software operating in devices and wherein the users can communicate with a management server using the client software, the computer program product comprising a computer usable medium having computer readable program code thereon, including:  The computer program product of claim 27 wherein the managed entity is a managed user and the definition information file is an injectible identity file. The computer program product of claim 27 wherein the managed entity is a managed device and the definition information file is a device information file. The computer program product of claim 29 wherein the device information file is a Windows REG file. The computer program product of claim 27 further comprising:  The computer program product of claim 27 further comprising: The computer program product of claim 27 further comprising:  The computer program product of claim 33 wherein the program code for adjusting and synchronizing the components comprises program code for downloading and installing licensed components from the management server to the client software which components are on the server list and are not on the client list. The computer program product of claim 33 wherein the program code for adjusting and synchronizing the components further comprises program code for revoking licenses in the client software of components are on the client list and are not on the server list. The computer program product of claim 33 wherein program code for adjusting and synchronizing the components operates periodically. The computer program product of claim 27 further comprising:  The computer program product of claim 37 wherein the event notifications include error notifications. The computer program product of claim 37 further comprisinig program code for temporarily storing event notifications and statistical information in a memory located at a client site. A computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave for managing a peer-to-peer collaboration system in which users having identities are directly connected to each other in a shared private space by client software operating in devices and wherein the users can communicate with a management server using the client software, the computer data signal comprising:  Apparatus for managing a peer-to-peer collaboration system in which users having identities are directly connected to each other in a shared private space by client software operating in devices and wherein the users can communicate with a management server using the client software, the apparatus comprising:  The apparatus of claim 41 wherein the managed entity is a managed user and the definition information file is an injectible identity file. The apparatus of claim 41 wherein the managed entity is a managed device and the definition information file is a device information file. The apparatus of claim 43 wherein the device information file is a Windows REG file. The apparatus of claim 41 further comprising:  The apparatus of claim 41 further comprising:  <seperator>EP-1282173-A2<id_sep>subgroupH01L29slash417subgroup subgroupH01L29slash78subgroup subclassG02Fsubclass sectionHsection subgroupH01L21slash268subgroup subgroupG02F1slash13subgroup sectionGsection subgroupG02F1slash1368subgroup classH01class subgroupH01L21slash02subgroup subgroupH01L21slash336subgroup subgroupH01L29slash40subgroup subgroupH01L29slash786subgroup subclassH01Lsubclass subgroupH01L29slash66subgroup classG02class Field effect transistor and method of manufacturing the same as well as liquid crystal display using the same as well as method of manufacturing the same A gate-overlap-drain structure is obtained by a single pair of a single impurity implantation process and a single laser anneal process, wherein the improved gate-overlap-drain structure includes lightly activated high impurity concentration regions exhibiting substantially the same function as the lightly doped drain regions, wherein the lightly activated high impurity concentration regions are bounded with high impurity concentration regions serving as source and drain regions. The boundaries are self-aligned to edges of a gate electrode. Side regions of the gate electrode overlap the lightly activated high impurity concentration regions.  The present invention relates to a field effect transistor with an improved gate overlap drain structure and a method of manufacturing the same by utilizing a laser beam irradiation technique as well as a liquid crystal display using the same and a method of manufacturing the same. All of patents, patent applications, patent publications, scientific articles and the like, which will hereinafter be cited or identified in the present application, will, hereby, be incorporated by references in their entirety in order to describe more fully the state of the art, to which the present invention pertains. In recent years, shrinkage of the semiconductor device causes shortening a gate width of a field effect transistor. The shortened gate width may cause short channel effects and hot carrier injections, thereby resulting in deterioration of reliability of the field effect transistor. The short channel effects and the hot carrier injections may cause an extensively high field in the vicinity of the drain region of the transistor. In order to avoid the above undesired problems, it is effective to reduce or relax an extensively high field in the vicinity of the drain region of the transistor. In order to reduce or relax an extensively high field, a lightly doped drain (LLD) structure is effective, which has been known in the art, to which the present invention pertains. In accordance with the lightly doped drain (LLD) structure, off-set gate layers having lower impurity concentration are selectively formed in selected substrate regions between source/drain regions and a channel region under a gate electrode. The off-set gate layers contribute to relax undesired extensively high fields in the selected substrate regions between the source/drain regions and the channel region under the gate electrode. The off-set gate layers thus contribute to increase the withstand voltages, for example, a punch-through voltage and a hot carrier withstand voltage. A method of forming a typical example of a conventional lightly doped drain structure will be described with reference to FIGS. 1A through 1C. As shown in FIG. 1A, an isolation oxide film 14 is selectively formed over a silicon substrate 13 by a local oxidation of silicon method, thereby to define a field region which is surrounded by the isolation oxide film 14. A gate oxide film 4 is formed on the field region by a thermal oxidation. A polysilicon film is then deposited by a low pressure chemical vapor deposition method over the gate oxide film 4 and the isolation oxide film 14. A photo-lithography and a subsequent dry etching process are then carried out to form a gate electrode 5. A first ion-implantation is then carried out at a low impurity concentration by use of the gate electrode 5 and the isolation oxide film 14 as masks for subsequent anneal under predetermined conditions to form low impurity concentration regions 16. As shown in FIG. 1B, a silicon oxide film is deposited by a low pressure chemical vapor deposition method over the gate electrode 5 and the isolation oxide film 14 as well as the low impurity concentration regions 16. An anisotropic etching such as a dry etching is then carried out to etch-back the silicon oxide film, thereby to selectively form side wall oxide films 17 on opposite side walls of the gate electrode 5. A semiconductor structure in a field effect transistor, said structure comprising:  The semiconductor structure as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that said at least a lightly activated high impurity concentration layer is positioned under said gate electrode. The semiconductor structure as claimed in claim 2, characterized in that a boundary between said at least a lightly activated high impurity concentration layer and said at least a sufficiently activated high impurity concentration layer is aligned to an edge of said gate electrode. The semiconductor structure as claimed in claim 3, characterized in that said at least a lightly activated high impurity concentration layer has a gentle decrease in a first effectively-activated-impurity concentration value ranged in said first effectively-activated-impurity concentration range as a distance from said at least a sufficiently activated high impurity concentration layer is increased. The semiconductor structure as claimed in claim 4, characterized in that said at least a sufficiently activated high impurity concentration layer is sufficiently activated by a laser beam irradiation, while said at least a lightly activated high impurity concentration layer is insufficiently activated by a thermal diffusion from said at least a sufficiently activated high impurity concentration layer. The semiconductor structure as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that said at least a sufficiently activated high impurity concentration layer serves as a drain region, while said at least a lightly activated high impurity concentration layer serves as a field concentration relaxation region. The semiconductor structure as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that said semiconductor layer comprises :  A semiconductor structure in a field effect transistor, said structure comprising:  The semiconductor structure as claimed in claim 8, characterized in that said at least a lightly activated high impurity concentration layer is positioned under said gate electrode. The semiconductor structure as claimed in claim 9, characterized in that a boundary between said at least a lightly activated high impurity concentration layer and said at least a sufficiently activated high impurity concentration layer is aligned to an edge of said gate electrode. The semiconductor structure as claimed in claim 10, characterized in that said at least a lightly activated high impurity concentration layer has a gentle decrease in a first effectively-activated-impurity concentration value as a distance from said at least a sufficiently activated high impurity concentration layer is increased. The semiconductor structure as claimed in claim 11, characterized in that said at least a lightly activated high impurity concentration layer has a first implanted-impurity concentration value, and a first effectively-activated-impurity concentration range which is lower than said first implanted-impurity concentration value ; and    characterized in that said at least a sufficiently activated high impurity concentration layer has a second implanted-impurity concentration value which is substantially the same as said first implanted-impurity concentration value, and a second effectively-activated-impurity concentration value which is higher than said first effectively-activated-impurity concentration range. The semiconductor structure as claimed in claim 8, characterized in that said at least a sufficiently activated high impurity concentration layer serves as a drain region, while said at least a lightly activated high impurity concentration layer serves as a field concentration relaxation region. The semiconductor structure as claimed in claim 8, characterized in that said semiconductor layer comprises :  A field effect transistor including :  The field effect transistor as claimed in claim 15, characterized in that said at least a lightly activated high impurity concentration layer is positioned under said gate electrode. The field effect transistor as claimed in claim 16, characterized in that a boundary between said at least a lightly activated high impurity concentration layer and said at least a sufficiently activated high impurity concentration layer is aligned to an edge of said gate electrode. The field effect transistor as claimed in claim 17, characterized in that said at least a lightly activated high impurity concentration layer has a gentle decrease in a first effectively-activated-impurity concentration value ranged in said first effectively-activated-impurity concentration range as a distance from said at least a sufficiently activated high impurity concentration layer is increased. The field effect transistor as claimed in claim 18, characterized in that said at least a sufficiently activated high impurity concentration layer is sufficiently activated by a laser beam irradiation, while said at least a lightly activated high impurity concentration layer is insufficiently activated by a thermal diffusion from said at least a sufficiently activated high impurity concentration layer. The field effect transistor as claimed in claim 15, characterized in that said source region has the same structure as said drain region. A field effect transistor including :  The field effect transistor as claimed in claim 21, characterized in that said at least a lightly activated high impurity concentration layer is positioned under said gate electrode. The field effect transistor as claimed in claim 22, characterized in that a boundary between said at least a lightly activated high impurity concentration layer and said at least a sufficiently activated high impurity concentration layer is aligned to an edge of said gate electrode. The field effect transistor as claimed in claim 23, characterized in that said at least a lightly activated high impurity concentration layer has a gentle decrease in a first effectively-activated-impurity concentration value as a distance from said at least a sufficiently activated high impurity concentration layer is increased. The field effect transistor as claimed in claim 24, characterized in that said at least a lightly activated high impurity concentration layer has a first implanted-impurity concentration value, and a first effectively-activated-impurity concentration range which is lower than said first implanted-impurity concentration value ; and    characterized in that said at least a sufficiently activated high impurity concentration layer has a second implanted-impurity concentration value which is substantially the same as said first implanted-impurity concentration value, and a second effectively-activated-impurity concentration value which is higher than said first effectively-activated-impurity concentration range. The field effect transistor as claimed in claim 21, characterized in that said source region has the same structure as said drain region. A field effect transistor including :  The field effect transistor as claimed in claim 27, characterized in that said at least a sufficiently activated high impurity concentration layer is sufficiently activated by a laser beam irradiation, while said at least a lightly activated high impurity concentration layer is insufficiently activated by a thermal diffusion from said at least a sufficiently activated high impurity concentration layer. The field effect transistor as claimed in claim 27, characterized in that said field effect transistor is a thin film field effect transistor. A liquid crystal display including a plurality of pixels, each pixel having a liquid crystal cell and a switching device, and said switching device further comprising : a thin film field effect transistor including :  A method of forming a semiconductor structure in a field effect transistor, comprising the steps of:  The method as claimed in claim 31, characterized in that said at least a lightly activated high impurity concentration layer has a first implanted-impurity concentration value, and a first effectively-activated-impurity concentration range which is lower than said first implanted-impurity concentration value ; and    said at least a sufficiently activated high impurity concentration layer is bounded with said at least a lightly activated high impurity concentration layer, and said at least a sufficiently activated high impurity concentration layer has a second implanted-impurity concentration value which is substantially the same as said first implanted-impurity concentration value, and a second effectively-activated-impurity concentration value which is higher than said first effectively-activated-impurity concentration range. The method as claimed in claim 32, characterized in that a boundary between said at least a lightly activated high impurity concentration layer and said at least a sufficiently activated high impurity concentration layer is aligned to an edge of said gate electrode. The method as claimed in claim 33, characterized in that said at least a lightly activated high impurity concentration layer has a gentle decrease in a first effectively-activated-impurity concentration value ranged in said first effectively-activated-impurity concentration range as a distance from said at least a sufficiently activated high impurity concentration layer is increased. The method as claimed in claim 31, further including the step of forming a dummy layer over at least an entirety of said semiconductor layer before selectively forming a resist pattern over said dummy layer for selectively implanting said impurity through said dummy layer into said semiconductor layer in said selective impurity implantation. The method as claimed in claim 35, further including the steps of :  The method as claimed in claim 35, further including the step of having said dummy layer remain as said gate insulating film, so that said gate electrode is selectively formed over said dummy layer as said gate insulating film. A method of forming a semiconductor structure in a field effect transistor, comprising the steps of:  The method as claimed in claim 38, characterized in that said at least a lightly activated high impurity concentration layer has a first implanted-impurity concentration value, and a first effectively-activated-impurity concentration range which is lower than said first implanted-impurity concentration value; and    said at least a sufficiently activated high impurity concentration layer is bounded with said at least a lightly activated high impurity concentration layer, and said at least a sufficiently activated high impurity concentration layer has a second implanted-impurity concentration value which is substantially the same as said first implanted-impurity concentration value, and a second effectively-activated-impurity concentration value which is higher than said first effectively-activated-impurity concentration range. The method as claimed in claim 39, characterized in that a boundary between said at least a lightly activated high impurity concentration layer and said at least a sufficiently activated high impurity concentration layer is aligned to an edge of said gate electrode. The method as claimed in claim 40, characterized in that said at least a lightly activated high impurity concentration layer has a gentle decrease in a first effectively-activated-impurity concentration value ranged in said first effectively-activated-impurity concentration range as a distance from said at least a sufficiently activated high impurity concentration layer is increased. <seperator>EP-1267446-A1<id_sep>subclassH01Qsubclass subgroupH01Q21slash20subgroup classH04class sectionHsection subclassH04Bsubclass classH01class subgroupH01Q13slash08subgroup groupH01Q21slash00group subgroupH01Q13slash20subgroup subgroupH04B7slash08subgroup subgroupH01Q13slash10subgroup subgroupH01Q3slash24subgroup Device for the reception and/or the transmission of electromagnetic signals with radiation diversity The present invention relates to a device for the reception and/or the transmission of electromagnetic signals comprising at least two means of reception and/or of transmission of electromagnetic signals of the slot-fed antenna (11a, 11b, 11c, lid) type and means of connection for connecting at least one of the said means of reception and/or of transmission to means of utilization of the multibeam signals, in which the means of connection consist of two feed lines (12, 13) connected by a connection element to the utilization means (P), the two lines being coupled electromagnetically with the slots of the slot-fed antennas, each line terminating in a switching element (14, 15) arranged in such a way as to simulate, as a function of a monitoring signal, an open circuit or a short circuit at the extremity of one of the lines and a short circuit or an open circuit at the extremity of the other line so as to obtain different radiation patterns.  The present invention relates to a device for the reception and/or the transmission of electromagnetic signals which can be used in the field of wireless transmissions, in particular in the case of transmissions in an enclosed or semi-enclosed environment such as domestic environments, gymnasia, television studios or auditoria, etc. In the known systems for high-throughput wireless transmissions, the signals sent by the transmitter reach the receiver along a plurality of distinct routes. When they are combined at receiver level, the phase differences between the various rays which have travelled routes of different length give rise to an interference figure liable to cause fadeouts or a considerable degradation of the signal. Moreover, the location of the fadeouts changes over time as a function of the modifications of the surroundings, such as the presence of new objects or the passage of people. These fadeouts due to multipaths may engender considerable degradations both as regards the quality of the signal received and as regards the performance of the system. To remedy the problem of fadeouts relating to multipaths, use is currently made of directional antennas which, through the spatial selectivity of their radiation patterns, make it possible to reduce the number of rays picked up by the receiver, thus attenuating the effect of the multipaths. In this case, several directional antennas associated with signal processing circuits are required to ensure spatial coverage of 360°. French Patent Application No. 98 13855 filed in the name of the applicant also proposes a compact multibeam antenna making it possible to increase the spectral efficiency of the array. However, for a number of items of domestic or portable equipment, these solutions remain bulky and expensive. To combat fadeouts, the technique most often used is a technique using space diversity. As represented in Figure 1, this technique consists among other things in using a pair of antennas with wide spatial coverage such as two antennas of the patch type (1, 2) which are associated with a switch 3. The two antennas are spaced apart by a length which must be greater than or equal to λ0/2 where λ0 is the wavelength corresponding to the operating frequency of the antenna. With this type of device, it can be shown that the probability of the two antennas being simultaneously in a fadeout is very small. The proof results from the description given in "Wireless Digital Communication", Dr Kamilo Feher - chapter 7 - Diversity Techniques for Mobile-Wireless Radio Systems, in particular from Figure 7.8, page 344. It can also be proven through a pure probability calculation with the assumption that the levels received by each patch are completely independent. It can be stated, in this case, that if p (1% for example) is the probability that the signal received by an antenna has a level lower than a detectability threshold, the probability that this level is below the threshold for the two antennas is p The aim of the present invention is to propose an alternative solution to a conventional solution of the type described above, which applies to antennas of the slot-fed type and which makes it possible to obtain radiation diversity. Device for the reception and/or the transmission of electromagnetic signals comprising at least two means of reception and/or of transmission of electromagnetic signals of the slot-fed antenna (11a, 11b, 11c, 11d) type and means of connection for connecting at least one of the said means of reception and/or of transmission to means of utilization of the multibeam signals,characterized in that the means of connection consist of two feed lines (12, 13; 12a, 13a) connected by a connection element to the utilization means (P), the two lines being coupled electromagnetically with the set of slots of the slot-fed antennas, each line terminating in a switching element (14, 15) arranged in such a way as to simulate, as a function of a monitoring signal, an open circuit or a short circuit at the extremity of one of the lines and a short circuit or an open circuit at the extremity of the other line so as to obtain different radiation patterns. Device according to Claim 1, characterized in that the slot-fed antennas are antennas of the Vivaldi type regularly spaced around a central point. Device according to Claims 2 and 3, characterized in that the feed lines consist of microstrip lines or of coplanar lines. Device according to Claims 1 to 3, characterized in that the feed lines cross the slots of the slot-fed antennas in an open-circuit zone in respect of the slots. Device according to Claims 1 to 3, characterized in that the feed lines cross the slots of the slot-fed antennas in two distinct open-circuit planes of the slot. Device according to Claims 1 to 5, characterized in that the length of the first feed line between two slots of the slot-fed antennas is equal to kλt and the length of the second feed line between two slots of the slot-fed antennas is equal to (k+0.5)λt where λt is the wavelength guided in the line and k a positive integer. Device according to Claims 1 to 6, characterized in that the switching element consists of a diode. Device according to Claims 1 to 7, characterized in that the connection element consists of a T element dimensioned to send the energy selectively to one or the other feed line. Device according to Claims 1 to 8, characterized in that the length of the feed line between the slot of the fed antenna and the T is equal to: l = nλl/2 with n integer, and λl the wavelength guided in the line. <seperator>EP-1462891-A1<id_sep>subclassG05Bsubclass subgroupG05B19slash04subgroup sectionGsection groupG06F13slash00group subclassG06Fsubclass classG06class subgroupG05B23slash02subgroup classG05class subgroupG05B19slash042subgroup Data communications system and data communications method A data communications system and a data communications method can improve the operability of data communications among two arbitrary industrial devices 11 connected to a network. To attain this, at a request from an input/output unit 11A-3 of an industrial device 11A, predetermined data stored in a data storage unit 11B-8 of the industrial device 11B is transmitted to a industrial device 11C through the network 14, and the predetermined data is stored in the data storage unit 11C-8 of the industrial device 11C.  Background of the Invention Field of the Invention The present invention relates to a data communications system and a data communications method for use among a plurality of industrial devices connected to a network. Description of the Related Art FIG. 1 shows the configuration of an existing data communications system. As shown in FIG. 1, in a data communications system 90, a plurality of industrial devices 91 (91A, 91B, 91C, ...) and a server 92 are connected to a network 93 such as a LAN (local area network), etc. The industrial device 91 refers to, for example, production equipment, machining equipment, measurement equipment, inspection equipment, etc., and includes an operation panel such as a flat panel, a touch panel, etc. An operator performs a predetermined operation on an operation panel, and controls the operation of a target unit having the functions of a producing process, a machining process, a measuring process, an inspecting process, etc. At this time, the industrial device 91 changes various set values, and displays data, etc. indicating the operation status of the industrial device 91 on the operation panel. The set value for use in controlling the operation of the target unit and the data, etc. indicating the operation status of the target unit are centrally managed by the server 92 through the network 93. Thus, although the industrial device 91 stops for any reason by the server 92 managing the set value for controlling the operation of the target unit and the data indicating the operation status of the target unit, the set values and the operation status data of the industrial device 91 can be retrieved immediately after the recovery of the industrial device 91. Recently, an industrial control system disclosed by Japanese Patent Application Laid-open No.2002-204281, a system using a central computer disclosed by Japanese Patent Application Laid-open No.1993-239742, or the above-mentioned data communications system 90 are used in various production factories, etc. for easier maintenance, etc. However, since a system for centrally managing data of the industrial device 91 by the server 92 requires the server 92 to be constantly operable, there occurs the problem that data cannot be communicated between the industrial device 91 and the server 92 when an abnormal condition arises in the server 92. Additionally, there is the problem that the industrial device 91 and the server 92 require respective software exclusive for data communications, and the software is often incompatible with each other. Therefore, to solve the above-mentioned problems, a server facility has recently been provided for each industrial device 91 to realize peer-to-peer communications. For example, as disclosed in Japanese Patent Application Laid-open No.2003-5828, each industrial device 91 is provided with a server facility so that the data indicating the operation status of an industrial device 91 can be checked by another industrial device 91, and a set value of an industrial device 91 can be changed by another industrial device 91. Summary of the invention However, in the above-mentioned data communications system 90 and the system disclosed in Japanese Patent Application Laid-open No.2002-204281, Japanese Patent Application Laid-open No.1993-239742, and Japanese Patent Application Laid-open No.2003-5825, when an operator communicates data between two industrial devices 91 or between an industrial device 91 and a server 92, the operator has to communicate data using one device (the industrial device 91 or the server 92). When the device is remote from the location of the operator, the operator has to reach the device to perform the operation of communicating data. A data communications system which communicates data through a network (14) among first through third industrial devices (11A through 11C) based on predetermined data, wherein:  The system according to claim 1, wherein:  The system according to claim 1 or 2, comprising    a first terminal device (13) having a second transmission unit (13-1) for transmitting input second request data to the second industrial device (11B) through the network (14), wherein    the communications unit (11B-7) can communicate the predetermined data according to the second request data. The system according to any of claims 1 trough 3, comprising    a second terminal device (81) having a third transmission unit (81-1) for transmitting third request data at an input request to the second industrial device (11B) through a wireless LAN, wherein    the communications unit (11B-7) can communicate the predetermined data with the first industrial device (11A), the third industrial device (11C), or the first terminal device (13) through the network (14) at the third request data. The system according to any of claims 1 through 4, wherein    the first through third industrial devices (11A through 11C), the first terminal device (13), and the second terminal device (81) comprise a read unit (11A-6, 11B-6, 11C-6, 13-4, and 81-4) for reading contents of a storage medium for storing the predetermined data; and    the communications unit (11B-7) can communicate the predetermined data stored in the storage medium. The system according to any of claims 1 through 5,    the first through the third industrial devices (11A through 11C) control the operation of a loom according to the predetermined data. A data communications method for communicating data among first through third industrial devices (11A through 11C) which operates according to predetermined data through a network (14), comprising: <seperator>EP-1605681-A1<id_sep>subgroupH04N1slash32subgroup classH04class sectionHsection subclassH04Nsubclass subgroupH04N1slash44subgroup IMAGE PROCESSING DEVICE According to an image processing apparatus including a storing unit 12 for storing (retaining) the image data, and an image forming unit 6 for recording and printing the image data stored (retained) by the storing unit 12 on a recording medium such as copy paper and operating the image data so that the image data stored (retained) by the storing unit 12 can be reused as being stored (retained) in the storing unit 12 after printed by the image forming unit 6, by changing the above-described original operation related to the image data stored (retained) in the storage unit 12, for example, it is possible to make the operation not to retain the image data in the storage unit 12 possible.  The present invention relates to an image processing apparatus for performing the image processing, which temporarily store (retain) image data inputted via a communication network, for example, an image reading unit such as a scanner, an LAN, and the Internet; outputs the stored (retained) image data to an image forming unit to record (print) it on a recording medium such as copy paper; and transmits it to the outside via facsimile communication or data communication. Particularly, the present invention relates to an image processing apparatus intending to improve security of the image data temporarily captured and stored (retained) inside the apparatus, and more specifically, the present invention relates to an image processing apparatus capable of preventing deterioration of security when the important image data is stored (retained) inside without the user's noticing. Conventionally, an image processing apparatus provided with an electronic filing function has been known, whose function optically scans an original document to be copied to read it as the image data, temporarily stores the image data in a storage medium, reads arbitrary image data of the original document from the storage medium repeatedly in number of times according to desired number of pages, and outputs it on the copy paper for printing (for example, refer to Japanese Patent Application Laid-Open No. 6-178041 (1994)). More specifically, in recent years, a multi function is noticeable in the image processing apparatus having a copying function for scanning the image recorded on the paper and copying it. The image processing apparatus provided with a plurality of functions in addition to the copying function has been put to practical use, whose functions are for example, a function of a network printer that is connected to a communication network such as a LAN and receives the image data from the external apparatus such as a personal computer (PC) to output it and a facsimile function to transmit and receive the image data to and from a facsimile apparatus by using facsimile communication or the like. Such an image processing apparatus may be provided with means of storing (retaining) the image data inside even after performing the processing and a function to reuse the image data according to need, for example, by forming an image from the stored (retained) image data and outputting it or transmitting the stored (retained) image data to the external apparatus or the like. The above-described image processing apparatus provided with the electronic filing function manages designation of a storage location on the recording medium upon storing the image data and designation of the storage location on the storage medium upon reading the image data or the like, for example, by a FAT (File Allocation Table). According to the FAT, an information number is allocated for each information to be stored in the storage medium and a reference value of the FAT is decided by the information number so as to specify the storage location on the storage medium of each image data. The FAT is updated every time the output for printing of the image data to be managed is terminated. Further, it becomes impossible to read the image data stored in the storage medium specified by the FAT by means of the image processing apparatus when the contents of the FAT are erased or updated. Accordingly, by using the FAT, fear of leaking of the information is decreased and security of the image data is secured. An image processing apparatus comprising: image data storing means for storing image data; image data operating means for carrying out an operation for inputting image data by a filing function and storing it in said image data storing means or carrying out an operation for reading out the image data stored by said image data storing means and outputting it; and image processing means for image-processing the image data outputted by said image data operating means, characterized by comprising    image data protecting means for inhibiting the operation by said image data operating means to the image data stored by said image data storing means;    wherein, when said image data protecting means is operating, the operation of the image data by said image data operating means is limited. An image processing apparatus comprising: image data storing means for temporarily storing image data; image processing means for reading out the image data stored in said image data storing means and image-processing it; and image data operating means for operating the image data stored in said image data storing means so as to be stored in said image data storing means when said image data is image-processed by said image processing means, characterized by comprising    operation changing means for changing the operation of the image data by said image data operating means. The image processing apparatus as set forth in claim 2, characterized in that said operation changing means encrypts the inputted image data to store it in said image data storing means and decodes the encrypted image data stored in said image data storing means to supply it to said image processing means. The image processing apparatus as set forth in claim 2, characterized in that said operation changing means replaces the image data stored in said image data storing means with the random data when said image data is image-processed by said image processing means. The image processing apparatus as set forth in claim 2, characterized in that said operation changing means forcibly erases the image data stored in said image data storing means. The image processing apparatus as set forth in claim 5, characterized in that said operation changing means forcibly erases the image data stored in said image data storing means when said image data is image-processed by said image processing means. The image processing apparatus as set forth in claim 5,characterized in that said operation changing means forcibly erases all image data stored in said image data storing means. The image processing apparatus as set forth in claim 2, characterized in that said operation changing means temporarily stores the image data to be image-processed by said image processing means in said image data storing means, and, when said image data is image-processed by said image processing means, erases said image data from said image data storing means. The image processing apparatus as set forth in any one of claims 2 through 8, characterized in that said image processing means records the image data on a recording medium to form an image. The image processing apparatus as set forth in any one of claims 2 through 8, characterized in that said image processing means transmits the image data to the outside via a facsimile communication. The image processing apparatus as set forth in any one of claims 2 through 8, characterized in that said image processing means transmits the image data to the outside via a data communication. An image processing apparatus comprising: image data accepting means for accepting image data; and image data retaining means for retaining the image data accepted by said image data accepting means; characterized by comprising    limiting means for limiting retaining of the image data by said image data retaining means. An image processing apparatus comprising: image data accepting means for accepting image data; image data retaining means for retaining the image data accepted by said image data accepting means; processing means for processing the image data accepted by said image data accepting means; invalidating means for invalidating image data; and switching means for switching said invalidating means into the operational condition or the non-operational condition; characterized by comprising    limiting means for limiting retaining of the image data by said image data retaining means when said invalidating means is switched into the operational condition by said switching means. An image processing apparatus comprising: image data accepting means for accepting image data; image data retaining means for retaining the image data accepted by said image data accepting means; processing means for processing the image data accepted by said image data accepting means; and capable additionally comprising invalidating means for invalidating image data; characterized by comprising    limiting means for limiting retaining of the image data by said image data retaining means when said invalidating means is provided. The image processing apparatus as set forth in claim 12 or 13, characterized by further comprising:  The image processing apparatus as set forth in any one of claims 13 through 15, characterized in that said processing means also can process the image data stored by said image data retaining means. The image processing apparatus as set forth in any one of claims 12 through 16, characterized by further comprising retaining instruction accepting means for accepting a retaining instruction to designate the image data to be retained in said image data retaining means,    wherein said limiting means allows said image data retaining means to retain the image data to which the retaining instruction is accepted by said retaining instruction accepting means. An image processing apparatus, comprising: condition changing means for individually changing settings of a plurality of processing conditions for processing image data from the standard setting; and processing means for processing the image data in accordance with the plural processing conditions including the processing condition whose setting is changed by said condition changing means; characterized by comprising:  The image processing apparatus as set forth in claim 18, characterized by further comprising image data retaining means for retaining the image data whose processing by said processing means is finished;    wherein said predetermined processing condition is whether the image data processed by said processing means should be retained in said image data retaining means or not; and    the standard setting of said predetermined processing condition is inhibiting of retaining the image data processed by said processing means in said image data retaining means. The image processing apparatus as set forth in claim 18 or 19, characterized by further comprising:  An image processing apparatus comprising: image data accepting means for accepting image data; image data retaining means for retaining image data; processing condition storing means for storing a plurality of processing conditions upon processing image data; and processing means for processing, in accordance with each processing condition stored by said processing condition storing means, the image data accepted by said image data accepting means; characterized by comprising:  The image processing apparatus as set forth in claim 21, characterized by further comprising:  The image processing apparatus as set forth in claim 22, characterized by further comprising protecting means capable of switching an operation to protect the image data into valid or invalid,    wherein said changing means is configured so as to be operated when the operation of said protecting means is valid. The image processing apparatus as set forth in any one of claims 21 through 23, characterized in that said processing condition storing means is configured so as to store the setting of the retaining processing condition to inhibit retaining of the image data by said image data retaining means as the standard setting. The image processing apparatus as set forth in any one of claims 21 through 24, characterized by further comprising:  The image processing apparatus as set forth in any one of claims 21 through 25, characterized by further comprising:  <seperator>EP-1462355-A1<id_sep>subclassF16Hsubclass sectionBsection sectionFsection classF16class subclassB62Msubclass subgroupF16H57slash02subgroup subgroupB62M23slash02subgroup classB62class ELECTRICALLY POWERED ASSIST BICYCLE An electromotive power assisted bicycle comprises a drive shaft 4 to be rotated by a pedal effort; a primary sprocket 2 fixed to the drive shaft 4 for transmitting the pedal effort to a drive wheel 22; a secondary sprocket fixed to the drive shaft 4 coaxially with the primary sprocket 2; a pedal effort detection sensor for detecting a pedal effort; an electromotive power output unit box 13 detachably attached to the body for outputting an electromotive power in response to the pedal effort detected by the pedal effort detection sensor; a power sprocket coupled to a rotating output shaft of the electromotive power output unit box 13; an auxiliary chain stretched across between the secondary sprocket and the power sprocket; and a battery bracket 165 capable of accommodating a battery 162 for the electromotive power output unit box 13. Since the degree of flexibility for installing respective components has been significantly extended and also the overall system has been made light and compact, a bicycle of an ordinary frame can be easily powered by electricity.  FIELD OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to an electromotive power assisted bicycle that can run under a pedal effort to be assisted by electromotive power; and more specifically to an electromotive power assisted bicycle wherein the attachment system of the electromotive power has a high degree of flexibility for installation thereof. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Conventionally, an electromotive power assisted bicycle that can run under a pedal effort assisted by electromotive power has been made using a body frame tailored specifically for such a bicycle, and the frame has been further built upon by incorporating an electric motor, a reduction gear, a battery and other components such as a force combining mechanism for adding the electromotive power to the pedal effort. Those components have also been fabricated as dedicated parts adapted to the dedicated body frame. Among the above components, an example of a type of mechanism that has been suggested as the force combining mechanism includes a unit of dedicated design around a crank shaft such that the pedal effort applied onto the crank shaft and the power transmitted from the electric motor may be output coaxially from the crank shaft. In addition, a chain direct drive system as shown in Fig. 35 has been also suggested. The chain direct drive system includes, mounted on the body frame, an electric motor, a reduction gear for reducing a revolution speed of said electric motor and for outputting a resultant power therefrom and the like, wherein a power sprocket coupled to an output shaft of the reduction gear is, along with a regular sprocket, engaged with a chain for transmitting the pedal effort. At the same time, to ensure a contact angle of the chain over the power sprocket, pulleys are engaged with the chain respectively from the opposite side thereof. In one method for assembling the battery to the body, an attachment for fixing the battery is mounted to a seat post or a seat tube of the electromotive power assisted bicycle, so that a battery box containing the battery may be installed detachably in said attachment so as to extend from the seat post or the like toward the rear side of the body. According to this attaching method, the attachment is formed into a U-shaped unit comprising a curved portion and a halving portion, in which the curved portion is externally fitted onto the seat post or the like, while a hook of the battery box is clamped in the halving portion, so that the battery box can be fixedly secured to the attachment by tightening a fastener penetrating a bore formed through the halving portion. The electric motor and the reduction gear housed in a gear box are typically mounted to the body frame in places where they are to be fixed, respectively, as separate components, and covered by a housing or the like. Otherwise, a gear box serving as an electromotive power output unit box containing both of the reduction gear and the electric motor is coupled to the body frame in a place where it is to be fixed. 1. An electromotive power assisted bicycle, comprising:  2. An electromotive power assisted bicycle in accordance with claim 1, in which said battery bracket comprises:  3. An electromotive power assisted bicycle in accordance with claim 1, in which said electromotive output unit box comprises:  4. An electromotive power assisted bicycle in accordance with claim 1 or 3, further comprising:  5. An electromotive power assisted bicycle in accordance with claim 2, in which said bracket retainer is formed as a rigid band for clamping said body frame. 6. An electromotive power assisted bicycle in accordance with claim 2, in which said bracket member has a supporting section for supporting a battery to be inserted therein and an extension plate extending from said supporting section, wherein    said battery comprises one or more electric cells enclosed by a housing, said housing being provided with a slot, and    when said battery is accommodated in said bracket member, said extension plate is accommodated in said slot. 7. An electromotive power assisted bicycle in accordance with claim 5, in which an orientation of said bracket member with respect to said bracket retainer has been set such that the battery accommodated in said bracket member is positioned approximately horizontally in a longitudinal direction thereof. 8. An electromotive power assisted bicycle in accordance with claim 2, in which said body frame to which said battery bracket is fixed is a seat post, and said seat post is coupled to a connection means fixed to a body, wherein said connection means extends through an inside of the body frame. 9. An electromotive power assisted bicycle in accordance with claim 5, in which said bracket retainer includes guards in both edges of said band extending in a longitudinal direction, said guards extending approximately in a vertical direction with respect to a band surface. 10. An electromotive power assisted bicycle in accordance with claim 2, in which said bracket member has an interlocking section that is engaged with said housing of the battery to thereby fix the battery when said key is turned. 11. An electromotive power assisted bicycle in accordance with claim 2, in which said bracket member and said battery comprise, respectively, those portions that are interlocked to each other at the time of insertion of said battery, and said interlocking section is fixed when said key is turned. 12. An electromotive power assisted bicycle in accordance with claim 3, in which said shaft center of the gear whose shaft end portion is held by said cover passes through the vicinity of a center of gravity of said triangle. 13. An electromotive power assisted bicycle in accordance with claim 3, in which said shaft center of the gear whose shaft end portion is held by said cover extends approximately in a vertical direction with respect to at least one of said triangle. 14. An electromotive power assisted bicycle in accordance with claim 3, in which said gear whose shaft end portion is held by said cover is a helical gear. 15. An electromotive power assisted bicycle in accordance with claim 3, in which said coupling means is a bolt, and a bolt hole through which said bolt is to be inserted is formed in said cover, while a threaded hole with which said bolt is to be engaged is formed in said box. 16. An electromotive power assisted bicycle in accordance with claim 3, in which said respective different triangles have no shared area portion. 17. An electromotive power assisted bicycle in accordance with claim 3, in which an electric motor is disposed in an inside of said electromotive power output unit box, and said plurality of gears reduces a revolving speed of said electric motor. 18. An electromotive power assisted bicycle in accordance with claim 17, in which said electric motor is a flat motor. 19. An electromotive power assisted bicycle in accordance with claim 4, in which said bottom plate has a mounting hole for inserting a bolt therethrough, said bolt being used to fix said electromotive power output unit box to the bottom plate on a surface thereof defined to be opposite to said supporting section, wherein when said electromotive power output unit box is mounted, a head of said bolt is located in a front surface side of said bottom plate facing to said supporting section. 20. An electromotive power assisted bicycle in accordance with claim 4, in which an end portion of said bottom plate is coupled with a band means for tightly clamping a body frame. 21. An electromotive power assisted bicycle in accordance with claim 20, in which said bottom plate comprises a pushing means for applying a pushing force onto the body frame. 22. An electromotive power assisted bicycle in accordance with claim 21, in which said pushing means is composed of at least two pushing screws that have been screwed in penetrating said bottom plate from a location off from a center axis line of said bottom plate. 23. An electromotive power assisted bicycle in accordance with claim 4, in which said unit mounting bracket further comprises a sliding means capable of slidably moving said electromotive power output unit box in one direction along said bottom plate. 24. An electromotive power assisted bicycle in accordance with claim 23, in which said sliding means comprises:  25. An electromotive power assisted bicycle in accordance with claim 24, in which said guide means has a bottom guiding elongated hole formed in said bottom plate, wherein    said electromotive power output unit box is slidably moved in a state where a raised portion protruding from said electromotive power output unit box has been inserted through said bottom guiding elongated hole. 26. An electromotive power assisted bicycle in accordance with claim 25, in which said guide means has side guiding elongated holes formed in at least a pair of side plates, wherein    said electromotive power output unit box is slidably moved in a state where a protrusion protruding from said raised portion in a side face direction has been inserted through said side guiding elongated hole. 27. An electromotive power assisted bicycle in accordance with claim 26, in which said pair of side plates further comprise side extension segments extending from base end portions thereof in a longitudinal direction of said bottom plate, wherein    said side guiding elongated holes are formed in said side extension segments. 28. An electromotive power assisted bicycle in accordance with claim 25, in which said electromotive power output unit box includes a stabilizing area capable of slidably contacting with said bottom plate across a part or a full of surrounding area of a base end portion of said raised portion. 29. An electromotive power assisted bicycle in accordance with claim 24, in which said moving means comprises:  30. An electromotive power assisted bicycle in accordance with claim 24, in which said moving means comprises:  31. An electromotive power assisted bicycle in accordance with claim 4, in which said bottom plate comprises at least one rib that is raised up from one surface of said bottom plate and depressed from the other surface opposite to said one surface. 32. An electromotive power assisted bicycle in accordance with claim 31, in which said rib extends linearly over substantially full width of said bottom plate between said pair of side plates. 33. An electromotive power assisted bicycle in accordance with claim 4, in which said bottom plate, in at least one edge thereof on which said side plate is not extending, includes a bent segment that has been bent approximately at a right angle with respect to the bottom surface of said bottom plate. 34. An electromotive power assisted bicycle in accordance with claim 4, in which said unit mounting bracket further comprises a corner-rib segment formed in a region where said side plate intersects with said bottom plate in a form depressed inward said bracket so as to connect said side plate and said bottom plate. 35. An electromotive power assisted bicycle in accordance with claim 4, in which each of said pair of side plates comprises a partial circular segment with side hole formed in a central area of said circular segment through which said drive shaft is to pass. 36. An electromotive power assisted bicycle in accordance with claim 1, in which said secondary sprocket and said power sprocket are disposed in an inner side of the body than said primary sprocket. 37. An electromotive power assisted bicycle in accordance with any one of claims 1 through 36, in which a one-way clutch is interposed on a transmission path of an electromotive power from said electromotive power output unit box to said primary sprocket, wherein said one-way clutch is configured and disposed so as to transmit a torque in a direction from said electromotive power output unit box to said primary sprocket but not to transmit the torque in the inverse direction. 38. An electromotive power assisted bicycle in accordance with claim 1, in which said electromotive power output unit box contains a single chip control circuit of 16 bits in minimum and an electric motor, wherein said single chip control circuit provides a whole control of an electronic processing of the electromotive power assisted bicycle as well as a software control in a pulse modulation control system of said electric motor based on at least said pedal effort that has been detected 39. An electromotive power assisted bicycle in accordance with claim 20, in which a V-shaped concave face to be engaged with said body frame is formed in the end portion of said bottom plate coupled with said band means. 40. An electromotive power assisted bicycle in accordance with claim 20, in which said band means has a plurality of holes, wherein one end portion of said bottom plate is fixed to the body frame by inserting a fixing means through either one of said holes and engaging said fixing means with said bottom plate. 41. An electromotive power assisted bicycle in accordance with claim 20, in which said unit mounting bracket further comprises a sliding means capable of slidably moving said electromotive power output unit box in one direction along said bottom plate, and    said bottom plate has a mounting hole that allows a fixing means for mounting said electromotive power output unit box to said bottom plate to pass through and that is elongated along said one direction, wherein    said fixing means is engaged with a mounting plate disposed in a body frame side of said bottom plate. 42. An electromotive power assisted bicycle in accordance with claim 5, in which said bracket retainer is a band having a halving portion, wherein said halving portion is fastened so that both fasing ends of the halving portion are close to each other, whereby said bracket retainer is fixed to the body frame. 43. An electromotive power assisted bicycle in accordance with claim 42, in which said bracket retainer has a mounting section for mounting said bracket member in a position of the band defined to be opposite to said halving portion. 44. An electromotive power assisted bicycle in accordance with claim 2, in which said bracket retainer and said bracket member have curved sections associatively working for clamping the body frame and mounting surfaces to face each other. 45. An electromotive power assisted bicycle in accordance with claim 6, in which said supporting section is configured by combining a first supporting section having said extension plate with a second supporting section supporting said battery from an opposite side to said extension plate. 45. An electromotive power assisted bicycle in accordance with claim 45, in which said second supporting section is made of resin and comprises a terminal to be connected with a terminal of said battery. 46. An electromotive power assisted bicycle in accordance with claim 6, in which said supporting section is formed into a box shape with one end open for accommodating a part of said battery. <seperator>EP-1669770-A1<id_sep>sectionGsection classG01class subclassG01Rsubclass subgroupG01R15slash24subgroup subgroupG01R33slash032subgroup Magneto-optical sensors A system for estimating a parameter selected from the group consisting of a current, a magnetic field, or combinations thereof comprises a resonant frequency tunable magneto-optical loop resonator (10), wherein the loop resonator comprises a magneto-optical sensing element (12) coupled to an optical waveguide (14), and wherein the loop resonator is configured for receiving an originating optical signal from a broadband light source (20) and providing a modulated signal indicative of the estimated parameter.  The invention relates generally to sensors. The invention particularly relates to magneto-optical current and magnetic field sensors. Conventional transformer-based current sensors are large in size for field operations and tend to saturate at high voltages or currents. Alternative current sensors, such as optical current sensors, typically rely upon the Faraday effect of the magnetic field created by the current to alter the polarization of light propagating in a fiber near the conductor. The method for extracting this information from the fiber is very intricate and costly. In one example, complex active power supplies are located at line potential. Fiber-optic current sensors based on polarimetric methods require stringent control on the polarization state. The components for polarization measurement are usually based on costly bulk optical components and maintaining the alignment through a number of these types of components becomes a challenging task. Furthermore, cascading polarimetric current sensors for distributed sensing applications may not be practical due to system complexity. Measurement of currents flowing in high-voltage environments is also highly desirable, especially in power transmission and distribution systems. Transmission and distribution systems react dynamically to changes in active and reactive power. For power transmission to be economical and the risk of power system failure to be low, reactive compensation systems are desirable, particularly systems capable of simultaneously monitoring current flow at several points on a grid. There is a need therefore for low cost current metering and instrumentation. There is a particular need for a current measuring system that allows for multiplexing, which can be economically scaled and used in applications where instrumentation of multiple channels is required. Briefly, in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention, a system for current or magnetic field parameter determination comprises a resonant frequency tunable magneto-optical loop resonator, wherein the loop resonator comprises a magneto-optical sensing element coupled to an optical waveguide, and wherein the loop resonator is configured for receiving an originating optical signal, propagating the signal in two counter directions, and providing a modulated signal indicative of the parameter. In accordance with another embodiment of the present invention, a system for current or magnetic field parameter determination comprises a plurality of resonant frequency tunable magneto-optical loop resonators, wherein each loop resonator comprises a magneto-optical sensing element coupled to an optical waveguide, and wherein the loop resonators are configured for receiving an optical signal, propagating the signal in two counter directions, and providing a modulated signal indicative of the parameter. In accordance with one aspect of the present invention, a method for current or magnetic field parameter determination comprises providing at least one frequency tunable magneto-optical loop resonator, positioning the loop resonator in a magnetic field to be sensed, coupling an originating signal from a source into the at least one loop resonator, propagating the originating signal through two arms of the loop resonator and detecting a modulated signal from the at least one resonator. The invention will now be described in greater detail, by way of example, with reference to the drawings, in which:- A system for estimating a parameter selected from the group consisting of a current, a magnetic field, or combinations thereof, the system comprising resonant frequency tunable magneto-optical loop resonator (10), wherein the loop resonator comprises a magneto-optical sensing element (12) coupled to an optical waveguide (14); wherein the loop resonator is configured for receiving an originating optical signal, propagating the originating optical signal in two counter directions, and providing a modulated signal indicative of the parameter. The system of claim 1, wherein the sensing element (12) comprises an optical fiber coil comprising at least one looped element. The system of claim 1, wherein the sensing element comprises a magneto-optic crystal. The system of claim 1, further comprising a ring resonator filter (18), wherein the loop resonator is coupled to the ring resonator filter. A system for estimating a parameter selected from the group consisting of a current, a magnetic field, a change in current, a change in magnetic field, or combinations thereof, the system comprising a plurality of resonant frequency tunable magneto-optical loop resonators (10), wherein each loop resonator comprises a magneto-optical sensing element (12) coupled to an optical waveguide (14), wherein the loop resonators are each configured for receiving an originating optical signal, propagating the originating optical signal in two counter directions, and providing a respective modulated signal indicative of the parameter. The system of claim 5, wherein at least two of the loop resonators have different resonant frequencies. The system of claim 5, wherein at least two of the loop resonators have the same resonant frequency. The system of claim 5, wherein the output from at least one of the loop resonators is coupled into at least one other of the loop resonators. A distributed current estimation system comprising:  <seperator>EP-1475257-A1<id_sep>sectionBsection classG05class subclassB60Hsubclass sectionGsection subclassG05Dsubclass groupB60H1slash00group classB60class subgroupG05D23slash19subgroup Method and device for estimating the air discharge temperature of a heat exchanger The invention relates to a method for estimating a heater-core air discharge temperature of an HVAC system. According to the invention, the method uses a model of the heat exchanger. This heat exchanger efficiency model maps a heat exchanger efficiency to a set of actual operating parameters by generating a heat exchanger efficiency coefficient based on said second set of actual operating parameters.   The present invention generally relates to a method and a device for estimating the air discharge temperature of a heat exchanger. More specifically, the present invention relates to a method and a device for estimating the heater-core air discharge temperature of an HVAC system.  An automotive heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) system usually comprises an evaporator for cooling air and a heater-core for heating air. The heater-core is designed to transfer heat from the coolant of a vehicle's engine to the passenger compartment air in order to warm the passengers and defog or de-ice the windows of the vehicle. The warm air flow from the heater-core is mixed with a cold air flow from the evaporator and discharged through vents into the compartment of the vehicle. The temperature of the discharged air can be controlled by various systems. One kind of these systems applies an open loop algorithm in order to control the position of blend doors, which control the air flows in the HVAC system and are located in air ducts of the HVAC system. In such open loop control systems, data about the temperature of the air flow leaving the heater-core (in the following also called heater-core air discharge temperature) and or the evaporator (in the following also called evaporator air discharge temperature) is important in order to estimate the air discharge temperature of the HVAC system. In existing systems, the heater-core air discharge temperature is e.g. obtained by a direct temperature measurement using a temperature sensor. However, a temperature sensor increases the overall costs of the HVAC system. According to another solution, the heater-core air discharge temperature is roughly estimated based on the temperature of the coolant. This solution is shown in Fig. 3. The coolant temperature 100 is supplied to a low pass filter 102 as a measurement signal, preferably on a CAN bus. The low pass filter 102 maps the heater-core air discharge temperature 104 in function of the coolant temperature. This solution has the disadvantage that the accuracy of calibration over a wide range of operating conditions of the HVAC system is poor, particularly since the heater-core air discharge temperature depends on a plurality of parameters and not only on the coolant temperature.  It is an object of the present invention to provide a method and a device for estimating the heat exchanger air discharge temperature of an HVAC system, wherein the estimation of the air discharge temperature has a high accuracy and can be performed at low costs. This object is achieved by a method for estimating an heat exchanger air discharge temperature of an HVAC system as claimed in claim 1 and a device for estimating the heat exchanger air discharge temperature of an HVAC system as claimed in claim 10.  The present invention relates to a method and a device for esti mating the heat exchanger air discharge temperature of an HVAC system. In particular, the invention relates to a method and a device for estimating the heat exchanger air discharge temperature of an automotive HVAC system that uses a model of the heat exchanger. This heat exchanger efficiency model maps a heat exchanger efficiency to a set of actual operating parameters by generating a heat exchanger efficiency coefficient based on said second set of actual operating parameters. It follows that the method of the present invention increases the accuracy of the estimated heat exchanger discharge temperature by taking into account an efficiency of the heat exchanger at actual operating conditions. A method for estimating an heat exchanger air discharge temperature of an HVAC system based on a first set of actual operating parameters, characterised in that the heat exchanger air discharge temperature (32) is estimated based on a heat exchanger efficiency model mapping an heat exchanger efficiency to a second set of actual operating parameters. Method according to claim 1, wherein said heat exchanger efficiency model comprises the generation of a heat exchanger efficiency coefficient based on said second set of actual operating parameters, and wherein said heat exchanger discharge temperature is calculated using said first set of actual operating parameters and said exchanger efficiency coefficient. Method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein said second set of actual operating parameters comprises a coolant mass flow (16) through said heat exchanger and/or an air flow (18) through said heat exchanger. Method according to claim 3, wherein the coolant mass flow (16) is calculated based on a speed of an engine (10) comprising the coolant. Method according to claim 3 or 4, wherein the coolant mass flow is calculated based on the type of an engine (12) comprising the coolant. Method according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein said first set of actual operating parameters comprises a coolant temperature of a coolant flowing through said heat exchanger and/or an inlet temperature of an air flow to be conditioned by said heat exchanger. Method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein said heat exchanger is a heater-core of an HVAC system. Method according to claim 7, wherein the heater-core air discharge temperature (32) is estimated based on the heater-core heat exchange effectiveness (22), an air discharge temperature of an evaporator (26) of the HVAC system, and an initial temperature differential (30) between the temperature of the coolant (24) and the evaporator air discharge temperature (26). Method according to claim 7, wherein the heater-core air discharge temperature (32) is estimated based on the heater-core heat exchange effectiveness (22), an air inlet temperature of an air flow to be conditioned and a coolant temperature of a coolant flowing through said heat exchanger. Device for estimating an heat exchanger air discharge temperature of an HVAC system based on a first set of actual operating parameters, said device being adapted to implement the method according to any of the preceding claims, the device comprising first calculation means (44) adapted to calculate an heat exchanger efficiency based on a second set of actual operating parameters. Device according to claim 10, wherein said second set of actual operating parameters comprises a coolant mass flow (40) and/or an air flow (42) through the heater-core. Device according to claim 11, further comprising second calculation means (38) adapted to calculate said coolant mass flow based on the speed of an engine comprising the coolant. Device according to claim 11 or 12, further comprising third calculation means adapted to calculate the coolant mass flow based on the type of an engine comprising the coolant. Device according to claim any one of claims 10 to 13, wherein said first set of actual operating parameters comprises a coolant temperature of a coolant flowing through said heat exchanger and/or an inlet temperature of an air flow to be conditioned by said heat exchanger. Device according to any one of claims 10 to 14, wherein said heat exchanger is a heater-core of an HVAC system. <seperator>EP-1236886-A2<id_sep>subclassF02Msubclass subgroupF02M61slash10subgroup subgroupF02M47slash02subgroup subclassF16Jsubclass sectionFsection groupF02M55slash00group classF02class classF16class subgroupF02M51slash06subgroup subgroupF16J15slash08subgroup groupF02M61slash00group subgroupF02M61slash16subgroup Arrangement for increasing the sealing surface pressure of fluid conducting system Reduced thickness portions (35) in a form of a recess are formed in a contact surface in a lower end of a tip packing (4), which contacts with an upper end of a nozzle body (2). Furthermore, reduced thickness portions (36, 37) in a form of a recess are formed in a contact surface in an upper end of the tip packing (4), which contacts with a nozzle holder (3). With this arrangement, a sealing surface pressure around a connection between corresponding fuel passages (13-15) is increased with use of a reduced axial fastening force by reducing the sealing surface area in each contact surface. Furthermore, one (37) of the reduced thickness portions (35-37) formed in the contact surface in the upper end of the tip packing (4) is used as a leakage recovery passage.  The present invention relates to a sealing surface pressure increasing arrangement of a fluid conducting system, which is capable of increasing a sealing surface pressure around a connection between fluid passages in the fluid conducting system. More particularly, the present invention relates to a sealing surface pressure increasing arrangement of a fuel injection nozzle of an internal combustion engine. One previously proposed fuel injection nozzle 100 of an internal combustion engine is provided in each cylinder of the internal combustion engine. With reference to FIGS. 3 to 4C, the fuel injection nozzle 100 has a retaining nut 104. The retaining nut 104 makes tight sealing contact of a contact surface between a nozzle body 101 and a tip packing 103 and also makes tight sealing contact of a contact surface between the tip packing 103 and a nozzle holder 102 by applying a predetermined axial fastening force to these contact surfaces. In the fuel injection nozzle 100, there is no particular structure for achieving the tight contact in these contact surfaces, and the tight sealing contact is achieved only by applying the predetermined axial fastening force to the contact surfaces from the retaining nut 104. The tip packing 103 includes pin holes 111, 112 and a fuel relay passage 108. The pin holes 111, 112 receive corresponding positioning pins for positioning between the nozzle body 101 and the nozzle holder 102. The fuel relay passage 108 communicates a pressure chamber 105 and a fuel feed passage 106 of the nozzle body 101 to a fuel supply passage 107 of the nozzle holder 102. The nozzle holder 102 has a leakage recovery passage 109. The leakage recovery passage 109 recovers fuel leaked through the contact surface of the nozzle holder 102 and through the contact surface of the tip packing 103 and conducts the leaked fuel to a low-pressure pipeline system. One end of the leakage recovery passage 109, which is located adjacent to the contact surface of the nozzle holder 102, is communicated with another leakage recovery passage 110. This leakage recovery passage 110 communicates an axial bore 115 of the tip packing 103 and an axial bore 116 of the nozzle holder 102 to the leakage recovery passage 109. In recent years, fuel injection pressure of a fuel injection nozzle of a diesel engine has been progressively increased. Thus, there is a demand for increasing a sealing surface pressure between the contact surfaces of the components by increasing the axial fastening force of the retaining nut. However, when the contact surface of the nozzle body and the contact surface of the nozzle holder are fastened together via the tip packing by fastening or tightening the retaining nut, a frictional force generated between a shoulder of the nozzle body and an inner seat surface of the retaining nut upon application of the axial fastening force induces twist of the nozzle body. The twist of the nozzle body, in turn, causes a reduction of a roundness of a sliding portion of a nozzle needle and can finally prevents smooth sliding movement of the nozzle needle. A sealing surface pressure increasing arrangement of a fluid conducting system, the arrangement being characterized by:  A sealing surface pressure increasing arrangement according to claim 1, characterized in that at least one (37) of the at least one reduced thickness portion (35-37) is also used as a leakage recovery passage for recovering a fluid conducted from at least one of the first to third fluid passages (13-15). A sealing surface pressure increasing arrangement according to claim 1 or 2, further characterized by a fastening pipe member (5), which achieves tight contact of the first contact surface between the first fluid conducting component (2) and the third fluid conducting component (4) and also achieves tight contact of the second contact surface between the second fluid conducting component (3) and the third fluid conducting component (4) by exerting a predetermined axial fastening force to the first fluid conducting component (2), the third fluid conducting component (4) and the second fluid conducting component (3) to generate the sealing surface pressure. A sealing surface pressure increasing arrangement according to any one of claims 1 to 3, characterized in that the at least one reduced thickness portion (35-37) is formed in the third fluid conducting component (4). A sealing surface pressure increasing arrangement according to any one of claims 1 to 4, characterized in that:  A sealing surface pressure increasing arrangement according to any one of claims 1 to 5, characterized in that:  A sealing surface pressure increasing arrangement according to claim 6, characterized in that:  A sealing surface pressure increasing arrangement according to claim 7, characterized in that:  <seperator>EP-1333624-A2<id_sep>classH04class sectionHsection subgroupH04L12slash46subgroup subclassH04Lsubclass subgroupH04L29slash14subgroup Method and apparatus for checking continuity of leaf-to-root VLAN connections A virtual LAN (VLAN) has a number of segments connected by connections in a connection-oriented network (14). The topology of the VLAN is defined by a spanning tree. Cell sources (20) on the connections send continuity checking cells in a direction toward the spanning tree root (16A) to corresponding cell sinks (22). The cell sinks can trigger a change in the topology of the VLAN if the reception of continuity checking cells is interrupted. The connection-oriented network may be an ATM network. The continuity checking cells may be OAM cells.  The invention relates to data communication networks. The invention relates specifically to checking continuity of connections made across a connection-based network. The connection-based network could be a cell relay network such as an ATM network or a multi protocol label switching (MPLS) network. The invention has application in providing fault tolerance in virtual LANs (VLANs) in which data is carried over a connection-based network. In this disclosure the term virtual LAN ("VLAN") means a data communication network which comprises a number of segments which are connected together by links which operate according to a networking protocol different from that of the network segments. For example, two segments of an ethernet network may be connected by way of a connection in a connection-based network. The connection may be, for example, a virtual circuit in an asynchronous transfer mode (ATM) network or a path in an MPLS network. Each of the network segments may be interfaced to the connection-based network by a bridge. Data may be delivered between the segments in any of a wide number of ways. For example, where the segments comprise ethernet segments and the network which connects the segments comprises an ATM network, then ethernet frames may be carried between the segments according to standards such as local area network emulation ("LANE"), multi-protocol over ATM ("MPOA") or IP over ATM. The particular format by which data is conveyed between network segments is not important to this invention. The topology of a VLAN is typically initially established using a protocol such as the spanning tree protocol (STP). STP generates a network topology which is defined by a spanning tree. The spanning tree defines a topology which does not include any loops. After the topology has been established, a bridge at a root of the spanning tree generates and sends toward the leaves of the spanning tree bridge protocol data units BPDUs. If a bridge at a leaf in the spanning tree fails to receive a BPDU within a defined time period, the bridge can trigger a request for a topology change. If a new path to the bridge exists then the topology change will incorporate the new path into the network. IEEE standard 802.1Q provides a set of capabilities which permit media access control (MAC) bridges to define and manage networks in which multiple broadcast domains can co-exist on a single physical medium. This IEEE standard uses the term "VLAN" to describe such networks. In this disclosure the term VLAN is not used in the same sense as it is in IEEE 802.1Q (although this invention may be applied to networks which operate, or which include portions which operate, according to IEEE 802.1Q). IEEE standard 802.1D describes the operation of MAC bridges. There are various standards applicable to ATM networks in which operations, administration, and management ("OAM") cells are used for monitoring connections within the ATM network. These include Bellcore UNI specification 3.1 and ITU-I.610. U.S. patent No. 6,181,680 describes a method for testing ATM networks using OAM cells. U.S. patent No. 5,901,141 discloses a method for identifying those nodes passed through by a virtual connection which joins two end nodes. The method sends trace cells downstream from a monitoring node toward an endpoint. Each downstream node either loops back a trace cell identifying itself to the monitoring node or forwards the trace cell further. Method for providing fault tolerance in a VLAN having a topology defined by a spanning tree having a root node and at least one leaf node, the root and leaf nodes interconnected by connections in a connection-based network, characterized in that said method comprises the steps of:  Method of claim 1 comprising generating a connection rerouting request in response to the request for a change in the topology of the VLAN. Method of claim 1 or claim 2 wherein generating a request for a change in the topology of the VLAN comprises generating a topology change notification. Method according to any one of claims 1 to 3 wherein the first node is at a leaf of the spanning tree. Method according to any one of claims 1 to 4 wherein the second node is at a root of the spanning tree. Method according to any one of claims 1 to 5 wherein the connection-based network comprises an ATM network and sending a series of continuity checking packets comprises sending a series of OAM cells. Method of claim 6 wherein sending a series of OAM cells comprises sending OAM cells at intervals in the range of 1/10 second to 5 seconds. Method of claim 7 wherein the intervals are in the range of ½ second to 2 seconds. Method according to any one of claims 1 to 8 comprising monitoring a time elapsed since receipt of a continuity checking packet at the second node and generating the request for a change in the topology of the VLAN if the time elapsed exceeds a threshold. Method according to any one of claims 1 to 9 comprising monitoring a number of continuity checking packets received at the second node within a time window and generating the request for a change in the topology of the VLAN if the number of continuity checking packets received at the second node is less than a threshold number. Method according to any one of claims 1 to 10 also comprising sending continuity checking packets from the root node to one or more leaf nodes of the spanning tree and detecting the continuity checking packets at the one or more leaf nodes of the spanning tree. Method for providing fault tolerance in an ethernet VLAN comprising a plurality of ethernet segments connected to an ATM network by bridges and an ATM virtual circuit extending between a first one of the bridges and a second one of the bridges, the method comprising:  Method of claim 12 comprising generating a signal to trigger a soft permanent virtual circuit reroute in response to the request for a change in the topology of the VLAN. Method of claim 12 or claim 13 wherein generating a request for a change in the topology of the VLAN comprises generating a spanning tree protocol topology change notification. Method according to any one of claims 12 to 14 wherein generating a request for a change in the topology of the VLAN comprises sending a BPDU to a node of the VLAN. Method according to any one of claims 12 to 14 wherein generating a request for a change in the topology of the VLAN comprises sending a BPDU to a root node of the VLAN. Method according to any one of claims 12 to 16 wherein the sink port is at a root node of the VLAN, the source port is at a leaf node of the VLAN and the OAM continuity checking cells travel over the connection in a leaf-to-root direction. Method according to any one of claims 12 to 17 wherein the VLAN comprises a plurality of segments interconnected in a topology defined by a spanning tree protocol having a root at the second end of the virtual circuit and a leaf at the first end of the virtual circuit. Method according to any one of claims 12 to 18 comprising determining that the sink port has not received a predetermined number of the OAM continuity checking cells by determining that a time elapsed since receipt of a most recently received one of the OAM continuity checking cells exceeds a threshold time. Method for rerouting a connection in a connection-based network, the connection carrying data traffic between ethernet segments of a VLAN, the method comprising:  Method of claim 20 wherein the connection-based network comprises an ATM network and the continuity checking packets comprise OAM cells. Method of claim 20 or claim 21 wherein the VLAN comprises a plurality of segments interconnected in a topology defined by a spanning tree protocol having a root at the second end of the connection and a leaf at the first end of the connection. Method according to any one of claims 20 to 22 comprising determining that the cell sink has not received a predetermined number of the OAM cells by determining that a time elapsed since receipt of a most recently received one of the OAM cells exceeds a threshold time. Method according to any one of claims 20 to 23 wherein the connection comprises a soft permanent virtual circuit and the reroute signal comprises a VC reroute signal. Virtual LAN having a topology, the virtual LAN comprising: Virtual LAN of claim 25 wherein the topology is defined by a spanning tree. Virtual LAN of claim 25 or claim 26 wherein the connection-based network comprises an ATM network. Virtual LAN according to any one of claims 25 to 27 wherein the packet source is configured to generate and send OAM cells and the packet sink is configured to receive the OAM cells. Virtual LAN according to any one of claims 25 to 28 wherein the packet source is associated with a timer and the packet source is configured to generate and send the OAM cells at equally spaced-apart times. Virtual LAN of claim 29 wherein the packet sink is associated with a timer and the packet sink is configured to generate the request for a change in the topology of the VLAN when a time longer than a threshold time has passed since the packet sink has received one of the OAM cells. Virtual LAN according to any one of claims 26 to 30 comprising, on each of a plurality of the connections:  Virtual LAN of claim 31 wherein the spanning tree comprises a plurality of leaves and one of the packet sources is located at each of the leaves of the spanning tree. Virtual LAN of claim 32 wherein packet sinks corresponding to the packets sources located at the leaves of the spanning tree are located at the root of the spanning tree. Virtual LAN according to any one of claims 25 to 33 comprising a VLAN-level fault tolerance mechanism wherein the packet sink is configured to trigger the VLAN-level fault tolerance mechanism in response to not receiving one or more of the continuity checking packets sent by the packet source. Virtual LAN according to any one of claims 26 to 33 wherein the root of the spanning tree is located at a bridge and the bridge generates and sends bridge protocol data units to other bridges located at the leaves of the spanning tree. Method for providing fault tolerance in a VLAN having a topology, the VLAN comprising a plurality of segments interconnected by connections in an ATM network the method comprising:  <seperator>EP-1533351-A1<id_sep>classC09class groupC08F8slash00group subclassC08Fsubclass subgroupC09D11slash10subgroup sectionCsection subclassC09Dsubclass classC08class Aromatic carboxylic acid-modified cyclopentadine based hydrocarbon resins This invention relates to aromatic carboxylic acid-modified cyclopentadiene-based hydrocarbon resins and phenolated aromatic carboxylic acid-modified cyclopentadiene-based hydrocarbon resins and methods for producing the same. More particularly, this invention concerns methods of producing cyclopentadiene-based hydrocarbon resins and phenolated cyclopentadiene-based hydrocarbon resins that are modified by incorporation of aromatic carboxylic acids to improve their compatibility with alkyd resins while achieving softening points, rheological properties, and hydrocarbon solubilities desirable for use in the formulation of printing inks. This invention relates to aromatic carboxylic acid-modified cyclopentadiene-based hydrocarbon resins and phenolated aromatic carboxylic acid-modified cyclopentadiene-based hydrocarbon resins and methods for producing the same. More particularly, this invention concerns methods of producing cyclopentadiene-based hydrocarbon resins and phenolated cyclopentadiene-based hydrocarbon resins that are modified by incorporation of aromatic carboxylic acids to improve their compatibility with alkyd resins while achieving softening points, rheological properties, and hydrocarbon solubilities desirable for use in the formulation of printing inks. Resinous materials made by the thermal polymerization of cyclopentadiene-rich hydrocarbon feedstocks have been widely used in lithographic ink vehicles. Typically, such feedstocks include byproduct streams from petroleum refining that contain substantial amounts of cyclopentadiene, dicyclopentadiene, methylcyclopentadienes, dimers of methylcyclopentadienes, and cross-dimers of cyclopentadiene and methylcyclopentadienes. Usually these streams are predominantly composed of dicyclopentadiene and other dimers, since the dimers are more stable at room temperature. However, during processing the dimers revert to monomer before subsequently polymerizing. A description of these types of resins can be found in the Kirk-Othmer Encyclopedia of Chemical Technology, 4 The formulation latitude of hydrocarbon resins in lithographic and other printing inks tends to be limited by a balance of factors. If the hydrocarbon resins have sufficiently low molecular weights to be readily soluble in ink oils (i.e., high boiling-point hydrocarbon solvents) and compatible with other ink components such as vegetable oils or alkyd resins, the resins tend to have softening points that are too low to make fast-drying inks and solution viscosities that are too low to give formulated inks the paste-like consistency desired for printing. Sparging with steam or nitrogen, or alternately vacuum stripping to remove unreacted components, can increase resin softening points and solution viscosities, but these processes can lead to lower solubility and incompatibility with other ink components. Furthermore, the prolonged processing time associated with sparging or the increasing of the molecular weight often results in a darkening of the color of the final resinous product, which is undesirable in a resin used in ink production. It is known in the art that the softening points, viscosities, and alkyd compatibility of cyclopentadiene-based hydrocarbon resins can be improved by modifying them with agents such as other olefins, alkylphenols, fatty acids, rosin, α,β-unsaturated carboxylic acids and anhydrides, or various combinations thereof. Such modification may be carried out concurrently with the polymerization of the cyclopentadiene or subsequent to the polymerization. For example, U.S. Patent No. 4,433,100 teaches the incorporation of olefins other than cyclopentadiene into the cyclopentadiene feed as well as modification of the resin with rosin or fatty acids. Aliphatic carboxylic acids such as rosin acids or fatty acids can react via an addition reaction with the norbornyl unsaturation in the cyclopentadiene polymers to form ester linkages. The reaction of cyclopentadiene-based resins with phenolic-modified rosin esters is disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 5,391,615. The modification of cyclopentadiene-based resins by incorporation of maleic anhydride is disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,189,410. It is known that such α,β-ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acids and anhydrides can react with cyclopentadiene-based resins via a Diels-Alder or ene-type addition reaction. A process for producing an aromatic carboxylic acid-modified, cyclopentadiene-based hydrocarbon resin which comprises reacting:  The process of claim 1 which further comprises reacting:  The process of claim 1 wherein the cyclopentadienyl compound is at least one hydrocarbon feedstock stream. The process of claim 1 wherein the additive is a member selected from the group consisting of C-9 streams containing styrene, C-9 streams containing substituted styrene, fumaric acid, maleic acid, maleic anhydride, saturated monocarboxylic acids containing from about 8 to about 24 carbon atoms, unsaturated monocarboxylic acids containing from about 8 to about 24 carbon atoms, unsaturated aliphatic monocarboxylic acids derived from tall oil, unsaturated aliphatic monocarboxylic acids derived from vegetable oil, tall oil rosin, gum rosin, wood rosin, and combinations thereof. The process of claim 1 wherein the reaction temperature is in the range of about 245°C to about 285°C. The process of claim 1 wherein the aromatic carboxylic acid is a compound containing a total of from one to about three carbocyclic and/or heterocyclic aromatic rings to which are attached a total of from one to about four carboxyl groups. The process of claim 1 wherein the aromatic carboxylic acid is a member selected from the group consisting of benzoic acid, alkyl-substituted benzoic acids, alkoxy-substituted benzoic acids, halogenated benzoic acids, heterocyclic acids, and combinations thereof. The process of claim 7 wherein the aromatic carboxylic acid is a member selected from the group consisting of o-toluic acid, m-toluic acid, p-toluic acid, p-tert-butylbenzoic acid, p-anisic acid, 4-octyloxybenzoic acid, m-chlorobenzoic acid, phthalic acid, isophthalic acid, terephthalic acid, 1-naphthoic acid, 2-naphthoic acid, trimellitic acid, pyromellitic acid, benzophenonetetracarboxylic acid, picolinic acid, nicotinic acid, and combinations thereof. The aromatic carboxylic acid-modified, cyclopentadiene-based hydrocarbon resin produced by the process of claim 1. A varnish comprising the aromatic carboxylic acid-modified, cyclopentadiene-based hydrocarbon resin of claim 9 and at least one hydrocarbon solvent. An ink comprising the varnish of claim 10 and at least one pigment. A process for producing an aromatic carboxylic acid-modified, cyclopentadiene-based hydrocarbon resin which comprises reacting:  The process of claim 12 which further comprises reacting:  The process of claim 12 wherein the cyclopentadienyl compound is at least one hydrocarbon feedstock stream. The process of claim 12 wherein the additive is a member selected from the group consisting of C-9 streams containing styrene, C-9 streams containing substituted styrene, fumaric acid, maleic acid, maleic anhydride, saturated monocarboxylic acids containing from about 8 to about 24 carbon atoms, unsaturated monocarboxylic acids containing from about 8 to about 24 carbon atoms, unsaturated aliphatic monocarboxylic acids derived from tall oil, unsaturated aliphatic monocarboxylic acids derived from vegetable oil, tall oil rosin, gum rosin, wood rosin, and combinations thereof. The process of claim 12 wherein the alkylphenol is a member selected from the group consisting of p-tert-butylphenol, p-tert-amylphenol, p-tert-octylphenol, nonylphenol, dodecylphenol, dinonylphenol, p-cumylphenol, bisphenol A, and combinations thereof. The process of claim 12 wherein the acid catalyst is a member selected from the group consisting of mineral acids, sulfonic acids, and combinations thereof. The process of claim 17 wherein the acid catalyst is a member selected from the group consisting of sulfuric acid, phosphoric acid, hydrochloric acid, methanesulfonic acid, toluenesulfonic acid, and combinations thereof. The process of claim 12 wherein the reaction temperature is in the range of about 245°C to about 285°C. The process of claim 12 wherein the aromatic carboxylic acid is a compound containing a total of from one to about three carbocyclic and/or heterocyclic aromatic rings to which are attached a total of from one to about four carboxyl groups. The process of claim 12 wherein the aromatic carboxylic acid is a member selected from the group consisting of benzoic acid, alkyl-substituted benzoic acids, alkoxy-substituted benzoic acids, halogenated benzoic acids, heterocyclic acids, and combinations thereof. The process of claim 21 wherein the aromatic carboxylic acid is a member selected from the group consisting of o-toluic acid, m-toluic acid, p-toluic acid, p-tert-butylbenzoic acid, p-anisic acid, 4-octyloxybenzoic acid, m-chlorobenzoic acid, phthalic acid, isophthalic acid, terephthalic acid, 1-naphthoic acid, 2-naphthoic acid, trimellitic acid, pyromellitic acid, benzophenonetetracarboxylic acid, picolinic acid, nicotinic acid, and combinations thereof. The aromatic carboxylic acid-modified, cyclopentadiene-based hydrocarbon resin produced by the process of claim 12. A varnish comprising the aromatic carboxylic acid-modified, cyclopentadiene-based hydrocarbon resin of claim 23 and at least one hydrocarbon solvent. An ink comprising the varnish of claim 24 and at least one pigment. A two-step process for producing an aromatic carboxylic acid-modified, cyclopentadiene-based hydrocarbon resin which comprises:  The process of claim 26 which further comprises:  The process of claim 26 wherein the cyclopentadienyl compound is at least one hydrocarbon feedstock stream. The process of claim 26 wherein the additive is a member selected from the group consisting of C-9 streams containing styrene, C-9 streams containing substituted styrene, fumaric acid, maleic acid, maleic anhydride, saturated monocarboxylic acids containing from about 8 to about 24 carbon atoms, unsaturated monocarboxylic acids containing from about 8 to about 24 carbon atoms, unsaturated aliphatic monocarboxylic acids derived from tall oil, unsaturated aliphatic monocarboxylic acids derived from vegetable oil, tall oil rosin, gum rosin, wood rosin, and combinations thereof. The process of claim 26 wherein the first step reaction temperature is in the range of about 245°C to about 285°C. The process of claim 26 wherein the second step reaction temperature is in the range of about 210°C to about 265°C. The process of claim 26 wherein the aromatic carboxylic acid is a compound containing a total of from one to about three carbocyclic and/or heterocyclic aromatic rings to which are attached a total of from one to about four carboxyl groups. The process of claim 26 wherein the aromatic carboxylic acid is a member selected from the group consisting of benzoic acid, alkyl-substituted benzoic acids, alkoxy-substituted benzoic acids, halogenated benzoic acids, heterocyclic acids, and combinations thereof. The process of claim 33 wherein the aromatic carboxylic acid is a member selected from the group consisting of o-toluic acid, m-toluic acid, p-toluic acid, p-tert-butylbenzoic acid, p-anisic acid, 4-octyloxybenzoic acid, m-chlorobenzoic acid, phthalic acid, isophthalic acid, terephthalic acid, 1-naphthoic acid, 2-naphthoic acid, trimellitic acid, pyromellitic acid, benzophenonetetracarboxylic acid, picolinic acid, nicotinic acid, and combinations thereof. The aromatic carboxylic acid-modified, cyclopentadiene-based hydrocarbon resin produced by the process of claim 26. A varnish comprising the aromatic carboxylic acid-modified, cyclopentadiene-based hydrocarbon resin of claim 35 and at least one hydrocarbon solvent. An ink comprising the varnish of claim 36 and at least one pigment. A two-step process for producing an aromatic carboxylic acid-modified, cyclopentadiene-based hydrocarbon resin which comprises:  The process of claim 38 which further comprises:  The process of claim 38 wherein the cyclopentadienyl compound is at least one hydrocarbon feedstock stream. The process of claim 38 wherein the additive is a member selected from the group consisting of C-9 streams containing styrene, C-9 streams containing substituted styrene, fumaric acid, maleic acid, maleic anhydride, saturated monocarboxylic acids containing from about 8 to about 24 carbon atoms, unsaturated monocarboxylic acids containing from about 8 to about 24 carbon atoms, unsaturated aliphatic monocarboxylic acids derived from tall oil, unsaturated aliphatic monocarboxylic acids derived from vegetable oil, tall oil rosin, gum rosin, wood rosin, and combinations thereof. The process of claim 38 wherein the alkylphenol is a member selected from the group consisting of p-tert-butylphenol, p-tert-amylphenol, p-tert-octylphenol, nonylphenol, dodecylphenol, dinonylphenol, p-cumylphenol, bisphenol A, and combinations thereof. The process of claim 38 wherein the acid catalyst is a member selected from the group consisting of mineral acids, sulfonic acids, and combinations thereof. The process of claim 43 wherein the acid catalyst is a member selected from the group consisting of sulfuric acid, phosphoric acid, hydrochloric acid, methanesulfonic acid, toluenesulfonic acid, and combinations thereof. The process of claim 38 wherein the first step reaction temperature is in the range of about 245°C to about 285°C. The process of claim 38 wherein the second step reaction temperature is in the range of about 210°C to about 265°C. The process of claim 38 wherein the aromatic carboxylic acid is a compound containing a total of from one to about three carbocyclic and/or heterocyclic aromatic rings to which are attached a total of from one to about four carboxyl groups. The process of claim 38 wherein the aromatic carboxylic acid is a member selected from the group consisting of benzoic acid, alkyl-substituted benzoic acids, alkoxy-substituted benzoic acids, halogenated benzoic acids, heterocyclic acids, and combinations thereof. The process of claim 48 wherein the aromatic carboxylic acid is a member selected from the group consisting of o-toluic acid, m-toluic acid, p-toluic acid, p-tert-butylbenzoic acid, p-anisic acid, 4-octyloxybenzoic acid, m-chlorobenzoic acid, phthalic acid, isophthalic acid, terephthalic acid, 1-naphthoic acid, 2-naphthoic acid, trimellitic acid, pyromellitic acid, benzophenonetetracarboxylic acid, picolinic acid, nicotinic acid, and combinations thereof. The aromatic carboxylic acid-modified, cyclopentadiene-based hydrocarbon resin of the process of claim 38. A varnish comprising the aromatic carboxylic acid-modified, cyclopentadiene-based hydrocarbon resin of claim 50 and at least one hydrocarbon solvent. An ink comprising the varnish of claim 51 and at least one pigment. <seperator>EP-1662604-A1<id_sep>subclassH01Qsubclass sectionHsection classH01class subgroupH01Q1slash24subgroup subgroupH01Q1slash38subgroup Portable communication device with ultra wideband antenna The present invention relates to a portable communication device and an antenna arrangement. The device comprises a circuit board (16) having two sides (26, 28) that are straight, at least in an area where they meet at an angle below one hundred and eighty degrees for forming a corner (30), a ground plane (18) extending between said two sides except for a free area at the corner of the circuit board, and a radiating antenna element (22) provided in the free area at the corner. The antenna arrangement, which comprises the ground plane and the radiating antenna element, is suitable for use in the Ultra Wide Band frequency range while at the same time occupying little space in the portable communication device.  The present invention relates to the field of portable communication devices and more particularly to a portable communication device having an antenna arrangement suitable for use in the ultra wide band frequency range as well as such an antenna arrangement. Portable communication devices, like cellular phones, are becoming smaller and smaller, while at the same time providing a multitude functions and features and therefore also have a lot of components provided in them. Some of these functions provide location detection, either indoors or outdoors, as well as short range communication from device to device. Such communication of course needs antennas. It is however of importance that an antenna for such use is as small as possible in order not to occupy too much space within the device. For this reason there have been proposed a number of small antennas. In for instance US2003/0001793 there is described a chip antenna comprising a base block made of a dielectric material, which includes a helical conductor pattern acting as an antenna element for use in short range communication, like Bluetooth™. For this type of communication, there has in recent years been investigations regarding the use of the Ultra Wide Band frequency range. One antenna that has proved to have good properties for this type of communication is the discone antenna. However, a discone antenna is big and bulky and not suitable for use in a small portable communication device. It would thus be interesting to provide an alternative antenna arrangement for this frequency range that occupies little space in a portable communication device. The present invention is directed towards solving the problem of providing a communication solution that occupies little space and is suitable for use in the Ultra Wide Band frequency range. One object of the present invention is thus to provide a portable communication device having a communication structure that occupies little space and is suitable for use in the Ultra Wide Band frequency range. According to a first aspect of the present invention, this object is achieved by a portable communication device comprising: A second aspect of the present invention is directed towards a portable communication device including the features of the first aspect, wherein the free area is formed as a triangle. A third aspect of the present invention is directed towards a portable communication device including the features of the first aspect, wherein the ground plane comprises a section formed as a triangle with a truncated top, which truncated top faces the free area. A fourth aspect of the present invention is directed towards a portable communication device including the features of the first aspect, wherein the ground plane covers the whole board except for said free area. A fifth aspect of the present invention is directed towards a portable communication device including the features of the first aspect, further comprising a radio communication circuit on the board, wherein the radiating antenna element is connected to the radio communication circuit via an electrical connection that is isolated from the ground plane. Portable communication device (10) comprising:  Portable communication device according to claim 1, wherein the free area is formed as a triangle. Portable communication device according to any previous claim, wherein the ground plane comprises a section formed as a triangle with a truncated top, which truncated top faces the free area. Portable communication device according to any previous claim, wherein the ground plane covers the whole board except for said free area. Portable communication device according to any previous claim, further comprising a radio communication circuit (20) on the board, wherein the radiating antenna element is connected to the radio communication circuit via an electrical connection (24) that is isolated from the ground plane. Portable communication device according to any previous claim, wherein said sides of the board have lengths that are longer than a quarter of a certain frequency, which frequency is the lowest frequency of a band the antenna is intended to be used in. Portable communication device according to any previous claim, wherein the radiating antenna element has a meandering shape (36). Portable communication device according to any previous claim, wherein the radiating antenna element has a helical shape (24). Portable communication device according to any previous claim, wherein the radiating antenna element has a three-dimensional structure. Portable communication device according to claim 9, wherein the radiating antenna element is provided in a component (22) made of ceramic or dielectric material. Portable communication device according to any previous claim, wherein the radiating antenna element has a two-dimensional shape. Portable communication device according to claim 11, wherein the radiating antenna element is printed on the circuit board. Portable communication device according to any previous claim, wherein the radiating antenna element is a monopole antenna element. Portable communication device according to any previous claim, wherein it is a mobile phone. Antenna arrangement comprising:  <seperator>EP-1716922-A1<id_sep>subgroupB01J19slash32subgroup subclassB01Jsubclass classB01class sectionBsection Structured packing and use thereof At least one section of structured packing characterised in that:  (a) the length of said section is from about 1 m to about 6 m; and  (b) the specific surface area of the structured packing of said section is greater than 500 m The present invention relates generally to the use of structured packing in vapour/liquid contact columns. The invention has particular application in columns to be operated in locations where environmental conditions adversely affect steady state operation of the columns. It is known in the art that the efficiency of a vapour/liquid contact column is dependent on a number of factors including distribution of the liquid within the column. Optimum column performance may be achieved if liquid distribution in the column is uniform over the area of horizontal cross-section throughout the length of the column. This condition may be referred to as "steady state". Even small maldistributions of liquid can have a significant and adverse effect on column efficiency. Steady state operation of a vapour/liquid contact column is possible when the column is stationary and aligned vertically (see Figure 1). If the column is moved, for example, tilted out of vertical alignment, liquid distribution within the column is adversely affected (see Figure 2). Tilting a vapour/liquid contact column from the vertical by as little as 1° can significantly reduce column efficiency. In the case of land-based columns, such movement may be observed when columns (particularly tall, thin columns) sway due to high winds. However, movement is more apparent in the case of columns used offshore on floating platforms which are subject to "sea motion" where the rolling and pitching motion of the platform continually tilts the column out of vertical alignment (see Figure 3). Under such conditions, the average inclination of the column is usually between 1° and 3° from the vertical but the column may often be inclined by as much as 10°. Large ships typically roll ±2° from the vertical and the time taken for one roll cycle is about 15 s. De Bussy (AICHE; March 2000) discusses of the type of problems encountered when using vapour/liquid contact columns offshore. Oil and natural gas are both valuable natural sources of hydrocarbons. However, after extraction from the Earth, both oil and natural gas need to be processed into more useful products in order to maximise their usefulness. For example, oil may be refined into a variety of hydrocarbon products and natural gas may be converted into methanol or into Fischer-Tropsch hydrocarbon liquids, such as LPG, diesel and gasoline. The required processing facilities are ideally located at or near the sites of extraction as then it is not necessary to incur the substantial cost of transporting the oil and natural gas from the extraction facility to the processing facility. Such location does not usually present any problems in cases where the reserves of the natural products are on land. However, this is not the case where the oil and natural gas reserves are found offshore. Oil and natural gas are usually transported between offshore extraction facilities and land-based processing facilities either by tanker or by pipelines laid on the sea bed. The associated capital and operating costs of such transportation methods are very high. For this reason, there is much interest in developing floating processing facilities for use offshore. Not only do such facilities have the benefit of significantly reducing the overall costs of producing useful products from these resources, but also the floating facilities themselves may be readily redeployed to other sites. Use of at least one section of structured packing, the or each section being  Use as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the locations are offshore. Use as claimed in Claim 1 or Claim 2 wherein the vapour/liquid contact column is mounted on a buoyant platform. Use as claimed in any of the preceding claims wherein the length of said section is from about 2 m to about 4 m. Use as claimed in any of the preceding claims wherein the specific surface area of the structured packing is no more than about 1500 m Use as claimed in any of the preceding claims wherein the specific surface area of the structured packing is about 750 m Use as claimed in any of the preceding claims wherein the column comprises a plurality of sections of structured packing wherein at least one of said sections is as defined in Claim 1. Use as claimed in Claim 7 wherein each section of structured packing in the column is as defined in Claim 1. Use as claimed in Claim 7 or Claim 8 further comprising a liquid distributor provided between at least one adjacent pair of sections of structured packing. Use as claimed in any of the preceding claims wherein the column is a mass transfer separation column. Use as claimed in any of the preceding claims wherein the column is a cryogenic air separation column. A buoyant platform for supporting an offshore oil or natural gas processing facility, wherein said platform comprises at least one vapour/liquid contact column comprising at least one section of structured packing, the or at least one of said sections being  A buoyant platform as claimed in Claim 12 selected from the group consisting of a rig, ship, boat, pontoon and barge. <seperator>EP-1696232-A1<id_sep>sectionGsection subgroupG01N21slash77subgroup classG01class subgroupG01N21slash81subgroup subclassG01Nsubclass subgroupG01N31slash22subgroup subgroupG01N21slash78subgroup groupG01N31slash00group HUMIDITY INDICATOR A humidity indicator includes a first film (F1) covering a surface of a humidity-determining plate (B), and a second film (F2) covering a back of the humidity-determining plate (B). A flat air layer (Au) is formed at least between the first film (F1) and the surface of the humidity-determining plate (B), so that the entire surfaces of humidity-determining faces (M1 to M4), to which cobalt chloride (CO) is exposed, face to the air layer (Au), and a plurality of small holes (H) are formed at distances from one another in the first film (F1) to permit the direct communication of the air layer (Au) with the atmosphere. Therefore, even if an operator picks, with his or her hand, a humidity indicator for determining humidity by the discoloration of cobalt chloride, the cobalt chloride on a humidity-determining face is prevented effectively from adhering to the operator's hand and thus, entering into his or her body. In addition, even if fine dust is generated from a base paper sheet of the humidity indicator, it is hard for the dust to be diffused to the surroundings, thereby effectively preventing the influence of the dust to electronic parts. The present invention relates to a humidity indicator which is designed so that the discoloration of cobalt chloride in accordance with a change in humidity can be utilized for the determination of humidity. There is a conventionally known a humidity indicator of the above-described type, having a structure including a humidity-determining face which is provided on a surface of a humidity-determining plate, for example, comprising cobalt chloride held in a base paper sheet, so that the cobalt chloride is exposed to the humidity-determining face, whereby the determination of humidity around the base paper sheet can be visually conducted by the discoloration (from blue to pink) of the cobalt chloride on the humidity-determining face. Such a humidity indicator is used in a state in which it has been sealedly contained in a transparent air-tight packaging bag along with a variety of industrial products adversely affected by moisture (e.g., electronic parts such as circuit boards which may be cracked by the absorption of moisture by an epoxy resin) and a drying agent in the transportation of the industrial products. In the transportation of the products in such used state, whether or not the humidity in the packaging bag exceeds a defined limit can be visually determined by the color of the humidity-determining face of the humidity indicator. Therefore, whether the inside of the packaging bag with the drying agent contained therein is kept in an appropriate humidity state (a dried state) can be checked easily and hence, such humidity indicator is conventionally widely used in an electronic industry and the like. In the conventional humidity indicator, both of the surface and back of the humidity-determining plate (hence, even the humidity-determining face to which the cobalt chloride is exposed) are placed in states exposed to the outside, and an operator picks the humidity-determining plate directly with his or her hand and withdraws and places it out of and into a dry pack. To open the packaging bag and remove a product or products from the packaging bag, it is a conventional practice that the operator picks the humidity indicator with his or her hand to take it out of the pack, and checks the colors of the humidity-determining face, as described above. For this reason, there is a possibility that the cobalt chloride on the humidity-determining face might adhere to the operator's hand and enter into the operator's body. It is known that the cobalt chloride is cancerogenic, and hence, it is desirable to improve an operating environment having a possibility that such cobalt chloride, even if in a very small amount, might adhere to the operator's hand and enter into the operator's body. In addition, in the conventional humidity indicator, the humidity-determining face is in the state exposed to the outside. For this reason, when the humidity indicator has been taken in the atmosphere out of a sealed storage container or a packaging bag with a drying agent contained therein as described above, of which interior is maintained in a low-humidity state, the cobalt chloride on the humidity-determining face is discolored relatively quickly due to the direct contact with air in a room, resulting in the arising of the following problem: Upon opening of the packaging bag and removal of the humidity indicator out of the packaging bag, when the humidity-determining face is discolored in a relatively short time, the operator may overlook the color before discoloration to provide an erroneous determination. In a case where an unused humidity indicator is taken out of a sealed storage container and transferred into the packaging bag, when the discoloration occurs before the transferring due to the slow working or the like, the user may erroneously recognize the humidity indicator as a defective indicator, causing various problems. A humidity indicator, comprising at least one humidity-determining face (M1 to M4) which is provided on a surface of a humidity-determining plate (P) comprising cobalt chloride (Co) held in a base paper sheet (B), so that the cobalt chloride (Co) is exposed to the humidity-determining face, whereby humidity is determined by the discoloration of the cobalt chloride (Co) on the humidity-determining face (M1 to M4),  The humidity indicator according to claim 1, wherein said first and second films (F1, F2) are formed to protrude from an outer peripheral edge of said humidity-determining plate (P) and bonded (m) at outer peripheral edge portions (Fla and F2a) thereof directly to each other. The humidity indicator according to claim 1 or 2, wherein a plurality of said humidity-determining faces (M1 to M4) are arranged at distances on the surface of said humidity-determining plate (P) in correspondence to a plurality of different humidity levels, respectively; and  said air layer (Au) is formed commonly to a plurality of said humidity-determining faces (M1 to M4). The humidity indicator according to claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein  said base paper sheet (B) is a filter paper having a hygroscopicity;  a flat second air layer (Ad) is formed between said second film (F2) and the back of said humidity-determining plate (P), so that at least a region or regions of said back corresponding to said humidity-determining face or faces (M1 to M4) face to the second air layer (Ad); and  a plurality of small holes (H') are formed at distances from one another in said second film (F2) to permit the direct communication of said second air layer (Ad) with the atmosphere. The humidity indicator according to claim 1, 2, 3 or 4, wherein that each of said films (F1, F2) has been subjected to an antistatic treatment. <seperator>EP-1229084-A1<id_sep>classC09class sectionBsection subclassB41Jsubclass subgroupC09B45slash18subgroup groupC09B67slash00group groupC09B45slash00group subclassC09Bsubclass sectionCsection groupB41M5slash00group subgroupC09B62slash44subgroup subgroupC09B67slash22subgroup groupC09D11slash00group subgroupB41J2slash01subgroup subclassB41Msubclass subgroupC09B62slash515subgroup classB41class subclassC09Dsubclass Use of hydrolyzed "reactive red 23" (RR23) as dye for ink-jet printing Reactive Red 23 magenta dye that is hydrolyzed to produce a passivated form having improved lightfastness in inkjet ink. FIELD OF INVENTION The present invention generally relates to ink-jet printing, and in particular to a specific form of Reactive Red 23 magenta dye which is hydrolyzed to produce a passivated form with better pH stability thus improving kogation, decap and lightfastness. BACKGROUND OF INVENTION The use of ink-jet printing systems has grown dramatically in recent years. This growth may be attributed to substantial improvements in print resolution and overall print quality coupled with appreciable reduction in cost. Today's ink-jet printers offer acceptable print quality for many commercial, business, and household applications at costs fully an order of magnitude lower than comparable products available just a few years ago. Notwithstanding their recent success, intensive research and development efforts continue toward improving ink-jet print quality. In general, ink-jet print quality still falls short of that produced by more expensive technologies such as photography and offset or gravure printing. A surge in interest in ink-jet imaging (e.g., the rendition of pictures) has resulted in the need to produce near photographic quality printed images at a reasonable cost. The challenge remains to further improve the image quality and lightfastness of ink-jet printed images, especially images containing skin tones, without increasing their cost. If such an ink is to be used in an ink-jet printing device, characteristics such as crusting, long-term stability, and materials compatibility must also be addressed. If the ink is to be used in a thermal ink-jet printer, the further constraint of being thermally stable (kogation-resistant) is added. In general, a successful ink set for color ink-jet printing must be compatible with the ink-jet pen and printing system. Some of the required properties for the ink-jet ink include: good crusting resistance, good stability, the proper viscosity, the proper surface tension, little color-to-color bleed, rapid dry time, no negative reaction with the vehicle, high solubility of the dyes in the vehicle, consumer safety, low strike through, high color saturation, and good dot gain. Color ink-jet printers typically use three inks of differing hues: magenta, yellow, and cyan. Optionally black is also used. EP 662499 and EP 366121 both assigned to Canon disclose the use of Reactive Red 23 in inkjet ink. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to a high lightfastness magenta dye comprising hydrolyzed Reactive Red 23 with from 0 to 100% hydroxy form and from 0 to 100% vinyl form : The present invention further relates to a set of ink-jet inks for ink-jet printing, at least one of the inks being a magenta ink comprising a high lightfastness magenta dye, the high lightfastness magenta dye comprising hydrolyzed Reactive Red 23 with from 0 to 100% hydroxy form and from 0 to 100% vinyl form: The present invention additionally relates to a method of making a passivated form of Reactive Red 23 comprising hydrolyzing Reactive Red 23 to obtain hydrolyzed Reactive Red 23 with from 0 to 100% hydroxy form and from 0 to 100% vinyl form . DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION The present invention described herein is directed to ink-jet inks for printing ink-jet images using commercially available ink-jet printers such as, for example but not limited to, HP DeskJet® printers, manufactured by Hewlett-Packard Company, of Palo Alto, California. The inks enable production of near photographic images having little or no coalescence, excellent waterfastness, and reduced dry time, on a range of print media, in particular, for example but not limited to, plain white, 8 ½ " X 11", 20 Ib. weight, printer paper conventionally used for office and home computers. A high lightfastness magenta dye comprising hydrolyzed Reactive Red 23 with from 0 to 100% hydroxy form and from 0 to 100% vinyl form of hydrolyzed Reactive Red 23 :  The high lightfastness magenta dye of claim 1, wherein at least 50% of the hydrolyzed Reactive Red 23 is the hydroxy form. A set of ink-jet inks for ink-jet printing, at least one of the inks being a magenta ink comprising a high lightfastness magenta dye, the high lightfastness magenta dye comprising hydrolyzed Reactive Red 23 with from 0 to 100% hydroxy form and from 0 to 100% vinyl form: The set of ink-jet inks of claim 3, wherein at least 50% of the hydrolyzed Reactive Red 23 is the hydroxy form. The set of ink-jet inks according to claim 3, at least one of the inks being a cyan ink comprising a cyan dye; and at least one of the inks being a yellow ink comprising a yellow dye. A method of making a passivated form of Reactive Red 23 comprising hydrolyzing Reactive Red 23 to obtain hydrolyzed Reactive Red 23 with from 0 to 100% hydroxy form and from 0 to 100% vinyl: The method according to claim 6 wherein hydrolyzing the Reactive Red 23 is conducted at a pH of at least 9. The method according to claim 6 wherein at least 50% of the hydrolyzed Reactive Red 23 is the hydroxy form. <seperator>EP-1553154-A1<id_sep>sectionHsection subgroupH05B33slash14subgroup classH01class subclassC09Ksubclass subclassH01Lsubclass subclassC07Csubclass subclassH05Bsubclass classC07class subgroupH01L51slash30subgroup classH05class groupH01L51slash00group groupC07C13slash00group subgroupC07C15slash28subgroup classC09class subgroupC09K11slash06subgroup subgroupC07C13slash66subgroup sectionCsection groupC07C15slash00group subgroupH01L51slash05subgroup ORGANIC ELECTROLUMINESCENCE DEVICE AND ANTHRACENE DERIVATIVE An organic electroluminescence device which comprises a cathode, an anode and an organic thin film layer comprising at least one layer comprising a light emitting layer and disposed between the cathode and the anode, wherein at least one layer in the organic thin film layer comprises an anthracene derivative having a specific structure singly or as a component of a mixture, and an anthracene derivative having a specific asymmetric structure and providing an organic electroluminescence device exhibiting a great efficiency of light emission and having a long life, are provided. TECHNICAL FIELD The present invention relates to an organic electroluminescence device and an anthracene derivative and, more particularly, to an electroluminescence device exhibiting a great efficiency of light emission and having a long life and an anthracene derivative providing the device. BACKGROUND ART An organic electroluminescence ("electroluminescence" will be occasionally referred to as "EL", hereinafter) device is a spontaneous light emitting device which utilizes the principle that a fluorescent substance emits light by energy of recombination of holes injected from an anode and electrons injected from a cathode when an electric field is applied. Since an organic EL device of the laminate type driven under a low electric voltage was reported by C. W. Tang of Eastman Kodak Company (C. W. Tang and S. A. Vanslyke, Applied Physics Letters, Volume 51, Pages 913, 1987), many studies have been conducted on organic EL devices using organic materials as the constituting materials. Tang et al. used a laminate structure using tris(8-hydroxyquinolinol)aluminum for the light emitting layer and a triphenyldiamine derivative for the hole transporting layer. Advantages of the laminate structure are that the efficiency of hole injection into the light emitting layer can be increased, that the efficiency of forming excited particles which are formed by blocking and recombining electrons injected from the cathode can be increased, and that excited particles formed within the light emitting layer can be enclosed. As the structure of the organic EL device, a two-layered structure having a hole transporting (injecting) layer and an electron transporting and light emitting layer and a three-layered structure having a hole transporting (injecting) layer, a light emitting layer and an electron transporting (injecting) layer are well known. To increase the efficiency of recombination of injected holes and electrons in the devices of the laminate type, the structure of the device and the process for forming the device have been studied. As the light emitting material, chelate complexes such as tris(8-quinolinolato)aluminum, coumarine derivatives, tetraphenylbutadiene derivatives, bisstyrylarylene derivatives and oxadiazole derivatives are known. It is reported that light in the visible region ranging from blue light to red light can be obtained by using these light emitting materials, and development of a device exhibiting color images is expected (For example, Japanese Patent Application Laid-Open Nos. Heisei 8(1996)-239655, Heisei 7(1995)-138561 and Heisei 3(1991)-200289). A device using a phenylanthracene derivative as the light emitting material is disclosed in Japanese Patent Application Laid-Open No. Heisei 8(1996)-012600. This anthracene derivative is used as the material for emitting bluish light, but an increase in the life of the device have been desired. A compound having fluoranthene group at the 9- and 10-positions of anthracene is disclosed as the material for the device in Japanese Patent Application Laid-Open No. 2001-257074. This compound is also used as the material for emitting bluish light, but an increase in the life of the device have also been desired. It is disclosed in Japanese Patent Application Laid-Open No. 2000-182776 that various anthracene derivatives are used as the hole transporting material. However, these derivatives have not been actually synthesized, and the evaluation of these compounds as the light emitting material has not been made. An organic electroluminescence device which comprises a cathode, an anode and an organic thin film layer comprising at least one layer comprising a light emitting layer and disposed between the cathode and the anode, wherein at least one layer in the organic thin film layer comprises, singly or as a component of a mixture, an anthracene derivative represented by following general formula (1):     wherein Ar represents a substituted or unsubstituted condensed aromatic group having 10 to 50 nuclear carbon atoms;    Ar' represents a substituted or unsubstituted aromatic group having 6 to 50 nuclear carbon atoms;    X represents a substituted or unsubstituted aromatic group having 6 to 50 nuclear carbon atoms, a substituted or unsubstituted aromatic heterocyclic group having 5 to 50 nuclear atoms, a substituted or unsubstituted alkyl group having 1 to 50 carbon atoms, a substituted or unsubstituted alkoxyl group having 1 to 50 carbon atoms, a substituted or unsubstituted aralkyl group having 6 to 50 carbon atoms, a substituted or unsubstituted aryloxyl group having 5 to 50 nuclear atoms, a substituted or unsubstituted arylthio group having 5 to 50 nuclear atoms, a substituted or unsubstituted alkoxycarbonyl group having 1 to 50 carbon atoms, carboxyl group, a halogen atom, cyano group, nitro group or hydroxyl group;    a, b and c each represent an integer of 0 to 4; and    n represents an integer of 1 to 3 and, when n represents 2 or 3, a plurality of groups in [] represented by:  may be a same with or different from each other. An organic electroluminescence device according to Claim 1, wherein the group represented by Ar in general formula (1) is a group selected from groups represented by following general formulae:  wherein Ar1 represents a substituted or unsubstituted aromatic group having 6 to 50 nuclear carbon atoms. An organic electroluminescence device according to Claim 1, wherein the light emitting layer comprises the anthracene derivative represented by general formula (1) as a main component. An organic electroluminescence device according to Claim 1, wherein the light emitting layer further comprises an arylamine compound. An organic electroluminescence device according to Claim 1, wherein the light emitting layer further comprises a styrylamine compound. An anthracene derivative represented by following general formula (2):     wherein Ar represents a substituted or unsubstituted condensed aromatic group having 10 to 50 nuclear carbon atoms;    Ar' represents a substituted or unsubstituted aromatic group having 6 to 50 nuclear carbon atoms;    X represents a substituted or unsubstituted aromatic group having 6 to 50 nuclear carbon atoms, a substituted or unsubstituted aromatic heterocyclic group having 5 to 50 nuclear atoms, a substituted or unsubstituted alkyl group having 1 to 50 carbon atoms, a substituted or unsubstituted alkoxyl group having 1 to 50 carbon atoms, a substituted or unsubstituted aralkyl group having 6 to 50 carbon atoms, a substituted or unsubstituted aryloxyl group having 5 to 50 nuclear atoms, a substituted or unsubstituted arylthio group having 5 to 50 nuclear atoms, a substituted or unsubstituted alkoxycarbonyl group having 1 to 50 carbon atoms, carboxyl group, a halogen atom, cyano group, nitro group or hydroxyl group;    a and b each represent an integer of 0 to 4; and    n represents an integer of 1 to 3 and, when n represents 2 or 3, a plurality of groups in [] represented by:  may be a same with or different from each other. An anthracene derivative according to Claim 6, which is a material for an electroluminescence device. An electroluminescence device which comprises a cathode, an anode and an organic thin film layer comprising at least one layer comprising a light emitting layer and disposed between the cathode and the anode, wherein at least one layer in the organic thin film layer comprises an anthracene derivative represented by general formula (2) described in Claim 6 singly or as a component of a mixture. An electroluminescence device according to Claim 8, wherein the group represented by Ar in general formula (2) is a group selected from groups represented by following general formulae:  wherein Ar1 represents a substituted or unsubstituted aromatic group having 6 to 50 nuclear carbon atoms. An electroluminescence device according to Claim 8, wherein the light emitting layer comprises the anthracene derivative represented by general formula (2) as a main component. An electroluminescence device according to Claim 8, wherein the light emitting layer further comprises an arylamine compound. An electroluminescence device according to Claim 8, wherein the light emitting layer further comprises a styrylamine compound. <seperator>EP-1607064-A2<id_sep>subclassG01Bsubclass groupA61B5slash00group classG01class groupG01J3slash00group subgroupG01B11slash24subgroup subclassG01Jsubclass subclassA61Bsubclass classA61class sectionGsection subgroupG01J3slash02subgroup subgroupA61B1slash24subgroup subgroupG01J3slash50subgroup groupA61C13slash00group subgroupA61B1slash04subgroup subgroupA61B5slash05subgroup subgroupA61B1slash247subgroup groupA61C9slash00group subclassA61Csubclass subgroupA61B5slash107subgroup sectionAsection Method and apparatus for colour imaging a three-dimensional structure A device for determining the surface topology and associated colour of a structure, such as a teeth segment, includes a scanner for providing depth data for points along a two-dimensional array substantially orthogonal to the depth direction, and an image acquisition means for providing colour data for each of the points of the array, while the spatial disposition of the device with respect to the structure is maintained substantially unchanged. A processor combines the colour data and depth data for each point in the array, thereby providing a three-dimensional colour virtual model of the surface of the structure. A corresponding method for determining the surface topology and associated colour of a structure is also provided. FIELD OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to optical scanners, particularly for providing a digital representation of three-dimensional objects including colour. The invention finds particular application in the surveying of the intraoral cavity. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Many methods have been developed for obtaining the three dimensional location of surface points of an object, for a host of applications including, inter alia, the intraoral cavity. Techniques for direct non-contact optical measurement, in particular for direct optical measurement of teeth and the subsequent automatic manufacture of dentures, are known. The term "direct optical measurement" signifies surveying of teeth in the oral cavity of a patient. This facilitates the obtainment of digital constructional data necessary for the computer-assisted design (CAD) or computer-assisted manufacture (CAM) of tooth replacements without having to make any cast impressions of the teeth. Such systems typically include an optical probe coupled to an optical pick-up or receiver such as charge coupled device (CCD) and a processor implementing a suitable image processing technique to design and fabricate virtually the desired product. Such methods include, for example, confocal imaging techniques as described in WO 00/08415 assigned to the present assignee. These methods provide a digital three-dimensional surface model that is inherently monochromatic, i.e., no colour information is obtained in the imaging process. Associating colour information with three-dimensional objects is not straightforward, particularly when the position information is obtained by using a three dimensional scanning method, while the colour information is obtained by using a two dimensional scanning method. The problem of conformally mapping the two dimensional colour information onto the three dimensional surface model is difficult and it is common for mismatching of the colour with three-dimensional points to occur. Essentially, where two-dimensional colour detectors are used for obtaining the colour information, it is difficult to accurately associate colour information from the detectors with the correct points on the three dimensional surface model, particularly where relative movement between the object and the device occurs between the acquisition of the three-dimensional topological data and acquisition of the two-dimensional image data. EP 837 659 describes a process and device for obtaining a three dimensional image of teeth. Three-dimensional surface data is obtained by first covering the surface with an opaque, diffusely reflecting material, and the object is illuminated with monochromatic light. The image of the object under the layer is obtained by the process described in US 4,575,805 using intensity pattern techniques. In order to obtain a two-dimensional colour image of the object, the reflecting layer has to be removed. The method thus requires the camera to be manually re-aligned so that the two-dimensional colour image should more or less correspond to the same part of the object as the three dimensional image. Then, the three dimensional image may be viewed on a screen as a two-dimensional image, and it is possible to superimpose on this two-dimensional image the two-dimensional colour image of the teeth taken by the camera. US 6,594,539 provides an intraoral imaging system that produces images of a dental surface, including three dimensional surface images and also two dimensional colour images, with the same camera. Device for determining the surface topology and associated colour of at least a portion of a three dimensional structure, comprising:  Device according to claim 1, wherein said device is adapted for providing a time interval between acquisition of said depth data and acquisition of said colour image data such that substantially no significant relative movement between said device and said portion occurs. Device according to claim 2, wherein said time interval is between about 0 seconds to about 100 milliseconds, preferably between 0 and 50 milliseconds, and more preferably between 0 and 20 milliseconds. Device according to claim 1, further comprising processing means for associating said colour data with said depth data for corresponding data points of said reference array. Device according to claim 1, wherein said operation of said scanning means is based on confocal imaging techniques. Device according to claim 5, wherein said scanning means comprises:  Device according to claim 6, wherein said first array is arranged to provide depth data at a plurality of predetermined spatial coordinates substantially corresponding to the spatial disposition of said incident light beams. Device according to claim 7, wherein operation of said imaging means is based on:  Device according to claim 8, wherein said second array is arranged to provide colour data at a plurality of spatial coordinates substantially corresponding to the spatial coordinates of said first array. Device according to claim 9, comprising colour illumination means adapted for providing three second illuminating radiations, each of a different colour. Device according to claim 10, wherein said colour illumination means comprises any one of the following:  Device according to claim 11, wherein said second illumination means comprise radiation transmission elements that are configured to be located out of the path of said light beams or said returned light beam at least within said light focusing optics. Device according to claim 12, wherein said probing member is made from a light transmissive material having an upstream optical interface with said light focusing optics and a reflective face for reflecting light between said optical interface and said sensing face. Device according to claim 13, wherein said second illumination means are optically coupled to said optical interface for selectively transmitting illuminating radiations in at least two colours to said portion via said sensing face. Device according to claim 13, wherein said colour illumination means comprises second illumination means for providing two said second illuminating radiations, and wherein said first illumination means provides another said second illuminating radiation each said second illuminating radiation being of a different colour. Device according to claim 15, wherein said probing member comprises a removable sheath having an inner surface substantially complementary to an outer surface of said probing member, and having a window in registry with said sensing face, wherein said sheath is made from a waveguiding material and is adapted to transmit said light from said second illuminating means from an upstream face thereof to a downstream face associated with said window. Device according to claim 16, wherein said second illumination means are optically coupled to said upstream face for selectively transmitting said second illuminating radiations in at least two colours to said portion via said downstream face. Device according to claim 13, wherein said reflective face comprises a dichroic coating, having relatively high reflectivity and low optical transmission properties for a said second illuminating radiation provided by said first illumination means, and relatively low reflectivity and high optical transmission properties for the two said second illuminating radiations provided by said second illumination means. Device according to claim 12, wherein said second illumination means are adapted for providing second illuminating radiations within said light focusing optics. Device according to claim 19, wherein said second illumination means are adapted for providing second illuminating radiations at an aperture stop plane of said light focusing optics. Device according to claim 19, further comprising:  Device according to claim 19, wherein said illumination means are adapted for selective movement in the depth direction. Device according to claim 19, comprising a mirror inclined to the optical axis of said light focusing optics and having an aperture configured to allow said light beams and said returning light beams to pass therethrough without being optically affected by said mirror, and wherein said second illumination means comprises at least one white illumination source optically coupled with suitable colour filters, said filters selectively providing illumination radiation in each colour in cooperation with said white illumination source, wherein said mirror is coupled to said white illumination source to direct radiation therefrom along said optical axis. Device according to claim 12, wherein said second illumination means are in the form of any one of the following :-  Device according to claim 8, wherein said first detector is adapted for selectively measuring intensity of each said second illuminating radiation after reflection from said portion. Device according to claim 7, wherein operation of said imaging means is based on any one of the following:-  Device according to claim 26, wherein said second array is arranged to provide colour data at a plurality of spatial coordinates substantially corresponding to the spatial coordinates of said first array. Device according to claim 27, wherein said imaging means comprises:-  Device according to claim 10, further comprising a tri-colour sequence generator for controlling the illumination of said portion with said second illuminating radiations. Device according to claim 29, further comprising at least one of  Device according to claim 30, adapted for determining colour and surface topology of a teeth portion. Method for determining the surface topology and associated colour of at least a portion of a three dimensional structure, comprising:  Method according to claim 32, wherein in step (c), a minimum time interval is allowed between acquisition of said depth data and acquisition of said image data. Method according to claim 33, wherein said time interval is between about 0 seconds to about 100 milliseconds, preferably between 0 and 50 milliseconds, and more preferably between 0 and 20 milliseconds. Method according to claim 32, wherein said depth data is provided using confocal imaging techniques. Method according to claim 32, comprising:  Method according to claim 36, wherein step (ii) is based on any one of the following:-  Method according to claim 37, wherein said second array is arranged to provide colour data at a plurality of spatial coordinates substantially corresponding to the spatial coordinates of said first array. Method according to claim 32, further comprising at least one of the following steps:-  Method according to claim 39, wherein in step (A1) said structure is a teeth segment with at least one missing tooth or a portion of a tooth and said object is said at least one missing tooth or the portion of the tooth. Method according to claim 32, comprising repeating steps (i) to (v) for two different surfaces of said structure to provide surface topologies thereof; and combining the surface topologies to obtain colour and topological data representative of said structure. Method according to claim 40, for reconstruction of topology of a teeth portion, comprising:  <seperator>EP-1705589-A1<id_sep>subclassG06Tsubclass sectionGsection subgroupG06F17slash50subgroup classG06class subclassG06Fsubclass subgroupG06T17slash20subgroup subgroupG06T17slash30subgroup METHOD FOR APPROXIMATING AND DISPLAYING THREE-DIMENSIONAL CAD DATA, AND SYSTEM FOR EXECUTING THAT METHOD The objective of the present invention is to provide a method for approximating and displaying a three-dimensional object represented by CAD data. In particular, the present invention provides a method for approximating CAD data representing a three-dimensional object, comprising steps of: (a) generating a mesh with mesh lines for approximating each face of the three-dimensional object represented by the CAD data within a rough conversion tolerance with respect to a specified conversion tolerance; (b) approximating a boundary edge surrounding and defining each individual face with a plurality of curves within the specified conversion tolerance, approximating each of the curves with a polyline comprising points and connecting lines within the rough conversion tolerance to define boundary points which are the points of the polylines, and obtaining a vector tangential to the curve at each of the boundary points; (c) generating polygons with three or four vertices by connecting internal points which are points of intersection of the mesh lines inside the boundary edge, and by connecting the boundary points and the internal points that are adjacent to and inside the boundary edge; (d) calculating a vector normal to the face at each of the vertices of each of the polygons, storing information identifying the vertices and the corresponding normal vectors, and storing the tangential vector at each of the boundary points obtained at the step (b); (e) converting each of the polygons with three or four vertices to a triangular or quadrilateral surface by using a plurality of control points obtained by processing the information identifying the vertices, the normal vectors, and the tangential vectors; and (f) examining if each of the triangular or quadrilateral surfaces is close to the face represented by the CAD data within the specified conversion tolerance, and if not, regenerating a mesh with a narrower mesh width and more mesh lines on the face to repeat the steps (c) - (e) and (f). It is preferable that the polygons are triangles.  This invention relates to a system, method, and computer software program for approximating and displaying three-dimensional CAD data.  Geometrical and topological data representing three-dimensional components are used in CAD for obtaining mechanical layouts, examining mechanical interferences, etc. primarily in the automotive and aerospace industries. The amount of CAD data generally increases as the degree of details increases, sometimes surpassing the hardware capacity. A PC with Microsoft Windows™ normally has a limited capacity of 2GB, unable to read in a massive amount of CAD data. A method for handling such a massive amount of data includes, for example, conversion of a three-dimensional shape to triangles. This type of method approximates a three-dimensional shape with triangles within a specified tolerance with respect to the CAD data precisely representing the three-dimensional shape in terms of geometry and topology. Such a task of generating polygons is generally done by dividing a region into polygonal sections. In this case, however, the data get duplicated because both the CAD data and the polygons data need to be held in the memory. In addition, dividing a region into polygonal sections requires a significant amount of processing load; thus, it takes a longer real time. In order to circumvent the disadvantages as above, numerous methods have been proposed. In one method, for example, once-obtained polygons data are stored in the memory and called when a real time display of the geometrical shape is needed, thereby eliminating recalculation. However, when high accuracy is required, that is, when the errors of the polygons data with respect to the original CAD data are required to be small, the amount of the polygons data increases tremendously, slowing down the display processing each time a viewing direction is changed. The amount of data increases exponentially with the inverse of the required tolerance value, that is, the smaller the required tolerance is, the more drastically the amount of data increases.  This invention relates to a system, method, and computer software program for approximating and displaying three-dimensional CAD data.  Geometrical and topological data representing three-dimensional components are used in CAD for obtaining mechanical layouts, examining mechanical interferences, etc. primarily in the automotive and aerospace industries. The amount of CAD data generally increases as the degree of details increases, sometimes surpassing the hardware capacity. A PC with Microsoft Windows™ normally has a limited capacity of 2GB, unable to read in a massive amount of CAD data. A method for handling such a massive amount of data includes, for example, conversion of a three-dimensional shape to triangles. This type of method approximates a three-dimensional shape with triangles within a specified tolerance with respect to the CAD data precisely representing the three-dimensional shape in terms of geometry and topology. Such a task of generating polygons is generally done by dividing a region into polygonal sections. In this case, however, the data get duplicated because both the CAD data and the polygons data need to be held in the memory. In addition, dividing a region into polygonal sections requires a significant amount of processing load; thus, it takes a longer real time. A method for approximating CAD data representing a three-dimensional object, comprising steps of:  The method for approximating CAD data representing a three-dimensional object according to Claim 1, further comprising a step of  The method for approximating CAD data representing a three-dimensional object according to Claim 1, wherein the polygons are triangles. The method for approximating CAD data representing a three-dimensional object according to Claim 1, wherein the curve is a Bezier curve. The method for approximating CAD data representing a three-dimensional object according to Claim 1, wherein the surface is a Bezier surface. The method for approximating CAD data representing a three-dimensional object according to Claim 1, wherein in the step (e), the control points between two internal points are generated by use of the normal vector at each of the internal points, the control points between one internal point and one boundary point are generated by use of the normal vector at each of the internal and boundary points, and the control points between two boundary points are generated by use of the tangential vector at each of the boundary points. The method for approximating CAD data representing a three-dimensional object according to Claim 1, further comprising steps of:  A method for displaying a three-dimensional object represented by CAD data, comprising steps of:  The method for displaying a three-dimensional object represented by CAD data according to Claim 8, wherein the polygons are triangles. The method for displaying a three-dimensional object represented by CAD data according to Claim 8, wherein the curve is a Bezier curve. The method for displaying a three-dimensional object represented by CAD data according to Claim 8, wherein the surface is a Bezier surface. The method for displaying a three-dimensional object represented by CAD data according to Claim 8, further comprising a step of  A computer program product for use in a computer system for approximating CAD data representing a three-dimensional object, comprising:  A computer program product for use in a computer system for displaying a three-dimensional object represented by CAD data, comprising:  <seperator>EP-1607906-A1<id_sep>subgroupH04W88slash02subgroup sectionHsection subgroupG08B13slash14subgroup classG06class subgroupH04M1slash66subgroup groupG06F21slash00group classH04class subgroupH04M1slash725subgroup groupH04W88slash00group sectionGsection subgroupG06K19slash10subgroup subgroupH04M1slash675subgroup subclassH04Msubclass subclassG06Ksubclass groupG06K17slash00group subgroupH04M1slash72subgroup subclassG08Bsubclass classG08class subclassH04Wsubclass subclassG06Fsubclass AUTHENTICATION CARD AND WIRELESS AUTHENTICATION SYSTEM FOR MUTUAL AUTHENTICATION USING THE AUTHENTICATION CARD The present invention provides an authentication card inserted to a portable device. The authentication card 1 is inserted (installed) in a cellular phone 30 and the authentication card 2 is inserted (installed) in a PDA 40. The authentication card 1 comprises an identification code transmission unit 10 and the authentication card 2 comprises a usage restriction cancellation unit 20. The units 10 and 20 exchange the identification code by means of wireless signal and mutually authenticate the identification code mutually. In case that the PDA 40 is moved more than the predetermined distance from the cellular phone 30 and the reception level of signal from the unit 10 received by the unit 20 is smaller than the predetermined value, or the unit 20 can not authenticate the identification code of the unit 10, the unit 20 stops transmission of the usage restriction cancellation signal to the PDA 40.  CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS This application is a continuation of international application PCT/JP2003/03574, filed on March 25, 2003, now pending, herein incorporated by reference. TECHNICAL FIELD The present invention relates to an authentication card that is installed in a portable apparatus that is carried by the owner and which performs wireless authentication for a device authentication card that is installed in another device. Further, the present invention relates to an authentication card that is installed in devices including information devices, home electronic locks, and automobile electronic locks and which performs wireless authentication for a portable authentication card that is installed in a portable apparatus that is carried by the owner. In addition, the present invention relates to a wireless authentication system in which a first authentication card that is installed in a portable apparatus carried by the owner and a second authentication card that is installed in a device perform mutual authentication. BACKGROUND ART In recent years, portable information devices such as PDAs (Personal Digital Assistants) and notebook computers have come into widespread use. Such portable information devices store multiple information such as information on the individual using the portable information device and information on the company to which the individual belongs. Therefore, in cases where such portable information devices are transferred to a third party as a result of being lost, mislaid, or stolen, it is undesirable for the third party to know the stored information and the demand for preventing such an occurrence is strong. Further, as in the case of keyless entry for an automobile, when a door lock is locked or canceled wirelessly by using radio waves instead of using a key, the user carries a portable apparatus that is equivalent to an automobile key and operates the locking or unlocking of the automobile door lock remotely by means of a wireless signal by using the portable apparatus. In the case of such a keyless entry system, when a door is locked or unlocked easily by means of a portable apparatus or the like owned by a third party, it is undesirable for the third party to assume ownership of the automobile or easily steal or commit mischief with the vehicle and so forth. Hence, in cases where an automobile door lock apparatus or other apparatus is operated wirelessly, there is a requirement to prevent takeover of ownership or illegal operation and to render the security reliable. Such takeover of ownership and illegal operation are not limited to an automobile door lock and, in addition to the above PDA (Personal Digital Assistant) and notebook computers, there is a requirement to similarly prevent takeover of ownership and illegal operation for portable apparatuses that remotely monitor and operate devices such as house door locks and camera and so forth. Therefore, there is similarly a need for reliable security in cases where such devices are remotely monitored and operated and so forth wirelessly. On the other hand, memory cards (memory stick, SD memory cards (registered trademark) and multimedia cards and so forth) that can be optionally inserted in portable apparatuses have become widespread in recent years and portable apparatuses that allow such cards to be inserted have also started to become widespread. An authentication card that is installed in a portable apparatus that is carried by an owner and which performs wireless authentication for a device authentication card that is installed in another device, comprising:  The authentication card according to claim 1, wherein the transmission portion transmits only the call signal stored in the storage portion; and  The authentication card according to claim 1, wherein the call signal is an M sequence signal or a binary pseudo-random signal containing a C/A code, P code or a linear FM signal. The authentication card according to claim 1, further comprising:  The authentication card according to claim 4, wherein, for the unusable state of the portable apparatus, the portable apparatus turns off the supply of power from the power supply of the portable apparatus to the constituent elements of the portable apparatus to be in a state where inputs to the portable apparatus are not accepted or erases the content of the memory of the portable apparatus. The authentication card according to claim 1, wherein the authentication card is a memory stick, SD memory card, or multimedia card. An authentication card that is installed in devices including information devices, home electronic locks, and automobile electronic locks and which performs wireless authentication for a portable authentication card that is installed in a portable apparatus that is carried by an owner, comprising:  The authentication card according to claim 7, wherein, when the wireless signal received by the reception portion contains only the call signal, the third judgment by the first judgment portion is whether the reception level of the call signal is equal to or more than the predetermined level and, when the wireless signal received by the reception portion contains the call signal and the identification code of the portable authentication card, the third judgment by the first judgment portion is whether the reception level of the identification code of the portable authentication card contained in the wireless signal is equal to or more than the predetermined level. The authentication card according to claim 7, further comprising:  The authentication card according to claim 9, further comprising:  The authentication card according to claim 7, wherein the call signal is an M sequence signal or a binary pseudo-random signal containing a C/A code, P code or a linear FM signal. The authentication card according to claim 7, further comprising:  The authentication card according to claim 7, wherein the unusable states of the device include states where the content of the memory of the apparatus is erased, the supply of power from the power supply of the device to the constituent elements of the device is turned off, or inputs to the device are not accepted. The authentication card according to claim 7, wherein the authentication card is a memory stick, SDmemory card, or multimedia card. A wireless authentication system comprising a first authentication card that is installed in a portable apparatus carried by an owner and a second authentication card that is installed in another device and in which the first and second authentication cards perform mutual authentication, wherein the first authentication card comprises:  <seperator>EP-1908849-A1<id_sep>classC12class subgroupC12N15slash09subgroup subclassC12Qsubclass subclassC12Nsubclass sectionCsection subgroupC12Q1slash68subgroup HYBRIDIZATION DETECTION METHOD The present invention provides hybridization detection method capable of increasing an S/N ratio seen at hybridization detection time and, thus, improving the precision of detection of hybridization between a probe nucleic-acid chain and a target nucleic-acid chain. In accordance with the hybridization detection method, after the hybridization is advanced in a reaction space in which the hybridization takes place, a temperature increasing process is carried out in order to raise the temperature of the reaction space. In this way, the S/N ratio seen at hybridization detection time can be increased. The present invention relates to a technology for detecting hybridization. To put it in detail, the present invention relates to, among others, hybridization detection method for raising an S/N ratio seen at hybridization detection time by operating a temperature condition of a reaction space and other conditions after advancing hybridization of a probe nucleic-acid chain and a target nucleic-acid chain. In recent years, efforts to put hybridization detection technology, which is used for detecting mainly hybridization making use of a DNA chip or a DNA microarray (hereinafter in this description referred to as "DNA chip"), to practical use have been making progress. A DNA chip is a chip obtained by integrating a number of DNA probes having a number of different kinds on a substrate and fixing the integrated DNA probes on the surface of the substrate. A process is carried out in order to detect hybridization of a probe nucleic-acid chain on the surface of the substrate of a DNA chip and a target nucleic-acid chain picked from a cell, a tissue or the like. By detecting such hybridization, a gene expression in the cell, the tissue or the like can be analyzed exhaustively. In general, a process of detecting hybridization making use of a DNA chip is carried out in accordance with the following procedure. First of all, a sample nucleic acid is supplied to a reaction space in which a probe nucleic-acid chain is fixed. Then, hybridization between the probe nucleic-acid chain fixed in the reaction space and a target nucleic-acid chain in the sample nucleic acid is carried forward. Finally, an intercalater or the like is supplied to the reaction space and hybridization is detected by measuring the intensity of fluorescence generated by the intercalater. References published before this description include The probe nucleic-acid chain carries out not only hybridization in conjunction with a target nucleic-acid chain having a regular complementary chain, which is complementary to the probe nucleic-acid chain, but also hybridization (mis-hybridization) in conjunction with a nucleic acid having a homology with respect to only a portion of the base sequence of the probe nucleic-acid chain. Thus, the probe nucleic-acid chain may generate a mismatching double-strand nucleic acid in the reaction space as a result. A detected signal (for example, fluorescence) detected as the original signal of the mismatching double-strand nucleic acid becomes a noise (or a background noise). For this reason, there is a technological problem that the precision of the hybridization detection is not necessarily sufficient if the hybridization detection is carried out in order to quantitatively detect a target nucleic-acid chain. In addition, in a process to detect hybridization by making use of an intercalater to be bound in a peculiar way to a double-strand nucleic acid obtained as a result of the hybridization, in some cases, the intercalater may be bound to a self-loop structure possibly created on a portion of a single-strand nucleic acid existing in the reaction space obtained as a result of a mis-hybridization or the intercalater may be absorbed in a non-peculiar way by the single-strand nucleic acid. Accordingly, there is another technological problem that noise fluorescence (or background-noise fluorescence) is generated at hybridization time. A hybridization detection method for increasing an S/N ratio seen at hybridization detection time by carrying out a temperature increasing process of raising the temperature of a reaction space, in which hybridization between a probe nucleic-acid chain and a target nucleic-acid chain is to advance, to a temperature higher than a temperature determined in advance after letting said hybridization advance. The hybridization detection method according to claim 1, whereby after letting said hybridization advance, said temperature increasing process is carried out by raising the temperature of said reaction space to a temperature higher than the melting temperature Tm of a mismatching dual-strand nucleic acid obtained as a result of a mis-hybridization but lower than the melting temperature Tm of a fully matching dual-strand nucleic acid in order to selectively execute a disassociation process on said mismatching dual-strand nucleic acid. The hybridization detection method according to claim 2, wherein said probe nucleic-acid chain is fixed in said reaction space in a state of having a sequence varying from spot to spot in said reaction space; and  said temperature increasing processes each oriented for one of said spots are carried out independently of each other on the basis of the melting temperatures Tm of said probe nucleic-acid chain and said target nucleic-acid chain. The hybridization detection method according to claim 1, whereby the difference between a reaction equilibrium constant of said hybridization and a reaction equilibrium constant of said mis-hybridization is raised in order to carry out more selectively said disassociation process on said mismatching dual-strand nucleic acid obtained as a result of said mis-hybridization. The hybridization detection method according to claim 1, whereby the temperature of said reaction space is raised in an instant to said temperature determined in advance.  The hybridization detection method according to claim 5, whereby the temperature of said reaction space is raised in an instant to said temperature determined in advance by carrying out a high-temperature solution replacement process. The hybridization detection method according to claim 1, whereby said hybridization is detected by making use of an intercalater absorbed by a dual-strand nucleic acid or bound to said dual-strand nucleic acid. The hybridization detection method according to claim 1, whereby said temperature increasing process is carried out in order to selectively execute said disassociation process on said mismatching dual-strand nucleic acid in an attempt to reduce noise fluorescence originated from said mismatching dual-strand nucleic acid. The hybridization detection method according to claim 7, said hybridization detection method at least comprising:  The hybridization detection method according to claim 9, whereby said second temperature increasing process is carried out by executing one or both of the following processes:  The hybridization detection method according to claim 1, whereby an electric field is applied to said reaction space at a stage of advancing said hybridization.  The hybridization detection method according to claim 1, whereby an electric field is applied to said reaction space while said temperature increasing process is being carried out or after said temperature increasing process has been carried out. The hybridization detection method according to claim 1, whereby  said probe nucleic-acid chain is fixed on said reaction space; and  after said temperature increasing process has been carried out, said reaction space is subjected to a solution cleaning process that leaves a fully matching dual-strand nucleic acid obtained as a result of said hybridization with said probe nucleic-acid chain in said reaction space. The hybridization detection method according to claim 13, whereby said solution cleaning process is carried out after an electric-field applying process of applying an electric field to said reaction space is executed after execution of said temperature increasing process.  The hybridization detection method according to claim 14, whereby a process comprising said electric-field applying process and said solution cleaning process is carried out repeatedly. <seperator>EP-1772972-A1<id_sep>classH04class sectionHsection subclassH04Bsubclass sectionGsection classG06class subclassG06Ksubclass groupG06K17slash00group subgroupH04B5slash02subgroup groupG06K19slash00group subgroupH04B1slash59subgroup RADIO TAG READ SYSTEM, RADIO TAG READ DEVICE, AND RADIO TAG To obtain a radio-tag reading system that can steadily make a detection area of a radio tag match with a communication area, and:can start read of ID of the radio tag, which enters the communication area, at a high speed, in a condition that a plurality of radio tags enter the communication area of a radio-tag reader at a time. The radio-tag reading system comprises a radio-tag reader 3 that includes a communication unit 31 that performs radio communication with a radio tag 2, a radio-tag detection processor 33 that allows the communication unit 31 to transmit a search signal for detecting the entrance of the radio tag 2 into a communication area in which the communication unit 31 can perform radio communication, at a predetermined time interval, to detect the entrance of the radio tag 2 into the communication area according to a response signal to the search signal, and a radio-tag information communication processor 34 that reads the radio tag information of the radio tag 2, upon receiving the response signal from the radio tag 2, and the radio tag 2 including a response processor 22 that, upon receiving a signal from the radio-tag reader 3, transmits a response signal to the signal. The present invention relates to a radio-tag reading system, in which at least one of movement of a radio tag into and out of a predetermined area is detected for smooth start of communication with the radio tag, and a radio-tag reader and a radio tag constituting the system. In communication between a radio-tag reader and a radio tag (radio frequency identification (RFID)), it is an important technique to detect that the radio tag enters into an area where the radio-tag reader can perform communication (hereinafter, "communication area") in saving power and reducing unnecessary radio wave discharge of the radio-tag reader. As a conventional technology for detecting the entrance of the radio tag is disclosed an incoming and outgoing product registration processing system that manages incoming and outgoing of a plurality of products loaded on a delivery carrier using radio tags. The incoming and outgoing product registration processing system includes a gate (corresponding to the radio-tag reader) with a blocking unit on a passage of the delivery carrier. When an item attached with a radio tag and the delivery carrier do not satisfy a predetermined condition, the blocking unit is closed, and the result and cause thereof are reported to a deliverer. In the incoming and outgoing product registration processing system, a sensor of the gate optically detects the passage of the delivery carrier through the gate, and, as a result, when the delivery carrier passes through the gate, a process using the radio tag is performed (for example, see Patent Document 1). Patent Document 1: The sensor in the incoming and outgoing product registration processing system described in the Patent Document 1 optically detects the passage of the delivery carrier, and does not perform detection using the radio tag attached to the delivery carrier. Therefore, a detection area in which the sensor can detect the delivery carrier is necessarily the same as the communication area of the radio-tag reader (the gate). In such a system, to expand the communication area of the radio tag and the radio-tag reader by changing the communication frequency band and output, the detection area where the sensor can perform detection also needs to be expanded. The sensor optically detects the delivery carrier, and the diffraction characteristics, etc. of light for detecting the delivery carrier are physically different from those of radio used for the radio tag. Accordingly, it is difficult to form a detection area that matches the communication area. Further, the incoming and outgoing product registration processing system described in the Patent Document 1 needs the sensor that detects the entrance of the delivery carrier into the detection area in addition to a communication unit that communicates with the radio tag, which increases the size of the gate. As a result, there is a limitation in cost reduction and space saving. On the other hand, a method of sequentially reading a plurality of radio tags according to a slot-aloha system is described in ISO/IEC18000-6: one of the standards for the radio tag. However, it is not specified at which point of time reading of identification (ID), i.e., identification information of the radio tag, is started. Therefore, such a condition that a plurality of radio tags enters the communication area of the radio-tag reader at the same time causes a significant time loss and a decrease in read rate of the radio tags depending on timing to start communication. That is, when the timing to start communication is early, the radio tag is insufficiently charged, resulting in a possibility of reread, which leads to a time loss. On the contrary, when the timing to start communication delays, time for reading decreases, resulting in a possibility that all radio tags cannot be read. A radio-tag reading system comprising:  The radio-tag reading system according to claim 1, wherein the radio-tag detection processor in the radio-tag reader includes a function of generating the search signal including a command instructing to reduce a transmission rate of the response signal to the search signal by a predetermined percentage and transmitting the response signal, and the response processor of the radio tag includes a function of transmitting the response signal, upon receiving the search signal, by reducing the transmission rate based on the command included in the search signal by the predetermined percentage. The radio-tag reading system according to claim 2, wherein the radio tag constitutes a radio tag group in which a plurality of radio tags are assembled. The radio-tag reading system according to claim 1, wherein the radio tag further stores priority information for defining a priority between the radio tags,  the radio-tag detection processor in the radio-tag reader includes a function of generating a search signal including a priority value specifying a priority of the radio tag, which should respond to the search signal, and  the radio-tag information communication processor includes a function of transmitting a signal instructing to read the radio tag information of the radio tag in which the priority value is set, upon receiving the response signal, in decreasing order from the priority value contained in the search signal, and  upon receiving the signal from the radio-tag reader, the response processor of the radio tag compares the priority value contained in the signal with the priority value of the own radio tag, and when a predetermined condition is satisfied, transmits a response signal to the signal. The radio-tag reading system according to claim 4, wherein the radio tag constitutes a radio tag group including one first radio tag with a high priority, and a plurality of second radio tags with a lower priority than that of the first radio tag, and  the radio-tag detection processor in the radio-tag reader sets the priority value indicating the priority of the first radio tag in the search signal. The radio-tag reading system according to claim 4, wherein the radio-tag detection processor in the radio-tag reader includes a function of changing the priority value contained in the search signal until the response signal is received, and of transmitting the search signal. The radio-tag reading system according to claim 4, wherein the priority information of the radio tag is specific identification information for uniquely identifying the radio tag. A radio-tag reader that performs radio communication with a radio tag attached to an object, and reads radio tag information, which is predetermined information relating to the object stored in the radio tag, comprising:  The radio-tag reader according to claim 8, wherein the radio-tag detection processor includes a function of generating the search signal including a command instructing to reduce a transmission rate of the response signal to the search signal by a predetermined percentage and transmitting the response signal. The radio-tag reader according to claim 8, wherein the radio-tag detection processor includes a function of generating a search signal including a priority value specifying the priority of the radio tag, which should respond to the search signal, of the radio tags having the priority information for defining the priority between the radio tags, and  the radio-tag information communication processor includes a function of transmitting a signal instructing to read the radio tag information of the radio tag in which a priority value is set, upon receiving the response signal, in decreasing order from the priority value contained in the search signal. The radio-tag reader according to claim 10, wherein the radio tag constitutes a radio tag group including one first radio tag with a high priority, and a plurality of second radio tags with a lower priority than that of the first radio tag, and  the radio-tag detection processor sets the priority value indicating the priority of the first radio tag in the search signal. The radio-tag reader according to claim 11, wherein the radio-tag detection processor includes a function of changing the priority value contained in the search signal until the response signal is received, and of transmitting the search signal. A radio tag that includes radio tag information, which is predetermined information relating to an object, to which the radio tag is attached, and performs a predetermined process based on a radio signal from a radio-tag reader, wherein the radio tag comprises:  A radio tag that includes radio tag information, which is predetermined information relating to an object, to which the radio tag is attached, and performs a predetermined process based on a radio signal from a radio-tag reader, wherein the radio tag further has priority information for defining a priority between radio tags, and comprises:  The radio tag according to claim 14, wherein the priority information is specific identification information for uniquely identifying the radio tag. <seperator>EP-1571692-A2<id_sep>classC09class subgroupC09K11slash66subgroup subgroupC09K11slash78subgroup sectionHsection subgroupH01J61slash44subgroup classH01class subclassC09Ksubclass sectionCsection subgroupH01J61slash38subgroup subgroupC09K11slash59subgroup groupH01J61slash00group subgroupC09K11slash81subgroup subgroupC09K11slash77subgroup subclassH01Jsubclass UV-emitting phosphor blend and tanning lamp containing same A UV-emitting phosphor blend is provided which comprises a mixture of at least two UVA-emitting phosphors selected from SrB TECHNICAL FIELD This invention relates to ultraviolet-emitting phosphors and phosphor blends. More, particularly this invention relates to the UVA output and maintenance of tanning lamps. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Tanning lamps are similar to conventional mercury-vapor fluorescent lamps in construction except that they contain one or more phosphors which emit radiation in the ultraviolet (UV) region of the electromagnetic spectrum in order to induce a tanning response in human skin. The UV emission from tanning lamps is classified into two regions, UVA and UVB. The U.S. Food & Drug Administration (FDA) defines the UVA region as being from 320-400 nm and the UVB region as being from 260-320 nm. The typical UV-emitting phosphor employed in tanning lamps is a single-component lead-activated barium disilicate, BaSi Reflector tanning lamps (RTLs) are a special class of tanning lamps wherein the UV flux is focused by a reflector which causes the flux to be emitted over a narrower segment of the circumference, for example 140°, instead of through the entire 360° circumference of the lamp. Two key performance parameters of tanning lamps, and RTLs in particular, are the initial UVA output of the lamp and the UVA maintenance. The initial UVA output of the lamp (0 hours) will be herein referred to as the 0h UVA output. The UVA maintenance measures the ability of the lamp to maintain its initial UVA output over a period of time, usually the first 100 hours of operation, and is expressed as a percentage of the initial output. As used herein, the 100h UVA maintenance is defined as the ratio of the UVA output of the lamp after 100 hours of operation to its initial UVA output times 100% ((100h UVA output/0 UVA output) x 100%). For commercial applications, it is very desirable to have both a high 0h UVA output and a high 100h UVA maintenance. Unfortunately, current commercial RTLs either have a high 0h UVA output (≥ 8600 µW/cm Therefore, it would be an advantage over the present state of the art to have tanning lamps, and RTLs in particular, that exhibit higher 0h UVA outputs at high 100h UVA maintenances. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION It is an object of the invention to obviate the disadvantages of the prior art. It is another object of the invention to provide tanning lamps having higher 0h UVA outputs at high 100h UVA maintenances. In accordance with one aspect of the invention, there is provided a UV-emitting phosphor blend which comprises a mixture of at least two UVA-emitting phosphors selected from SrB In accordance with another aspect of the invention, there is provided a fluorescent tanning lamp having a UV-transmissive envelope and a phosphor coating on an inner wall of the envelope. The phosphor coating contains a UV-emitting phosphor blend comprising a mixture of at least two UVA-emitting phosphors selected from SrB In accordance with a further aspect of the invention, there is provided a fluorescent tanning lamp having a tubular UV-transmissive envelope, a reflector layer, and a UV-emitting phosphor layer. The reflector layer extends over a 220° segment of the circumference of the envelope and is disposed between the envelope and the phosphor layer. The phosphor layer extends over the entire circumference of the envelope and the lamp exhibits a 0h UVA output of at least about 8800 µW/cm A fluorescent tanning lamp comprising:  The fluorescent lamp of claim 1, wherein the lamp is filled with a mixture of inert gasses with a fill pressure of 240 Pa (1.8 torr). The fluorescent lamp of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the lamp is a six-foot lamp with a 3.81 cm (1.5 inch) diameter and a mercury dosing of 18 mg. The fluorescent lamp of claim 1, 2 or 3, comprising a mixture of at least two UVA-emitting phosphors. The fluorescent lamp of claim 4, wherein the mixture of at least two UVA-emitting phosphors was selected from SrB4O7:Eu, YPO4:Ce, and BaSi2O5:Pb, wherein the sum of the weight percentages of the phosphors in the mixture equals 100%, and the phosphor blend additionally contains an optional amount of SrCe0.08MgAl11O18 having a range from 0 to 12 wt.% of the mixture. The fluorescent lamp of claim 5, wherein the mixture of UVA-emitting phosphors comprises 40 to 60 wt.% SrB4O7:Eu and 40 to 60 wt.% YPO4:Ce. The fluorescent lamp of claim 5, wherein the mixture of UVA-emitting phosphors comprises 0 to 50 wt.% SrB4O7:Eu, 0 to 40 wt.% YPO4:Ce, and 30 to 70 wt.% BaSi2O5:Pb. The fluorescent lamp of claim 5, wherein the mixture of UVA-emitting phosphors comprises 0 to 20 wt.% SrB4O7:Eu, 0 to 20 wt.% YPO4:Ce, and 50 to 70 wt. % BaSi2O5:Pb. The fluorescent lamp of claim 5, wherein the mixture of UVA-emitting phosphors comprises 40 to 60 wt. % SrB4O7:Eu and 40 to 60 wt. % BaSi2O5:Pb. <seperator>EP-1521235-A2<id_sep>sectionHsection groupG02B6slash00group classG09class subclassF21Ysubclass subgroupH05B37slash02subgroup subclassH05Bsubclass sectionGsection subclassG09Gsubclass subgroupG09G3slash34subgroup classF21class groupF21S2slash00group classH05class subclassG02Fsubclass subgroupG09G3slash36subgroup subgroupG02F1slash13subgroup subgroupG02F1slash13357subgroup sectionFsection subclassG02Bsubclass subgroupF21Y101slash02subgroup subgroupG02F1slash1335subgroup subclassF21Ssubclass classG02class Liquid crystal display backlight with a two-dimensional array of light emitting diodes One embodiment of the invention provides a backlight (26) for an LCD panel (14). The backlight (26) uses a two-dimensional array of single color or white LEDs (24) and a cover plate (40), e.g. a diffuser (28) or a cover plate (40) coated with a phosphor layer (39). Various electrical connections of the LEDs (24), various phosphor color-conversion techniques and light sensors (34) placed to measure the luminance uniformity over the backlight (26) are described. This invention is related to backlighting a liquid crystal display (LCD) panel and, in particular, to backlighting an LCD panel with light emitting diodes (LEDs). LCD TVs and monitors use backlights consisting of arrays of cold cathode fluorescent lamps (CCFLs) to create a visible image on the LCD. For large displays a direct backlight type is used, where the lamps are directly placed behind the LCD, as shown in Fig. 1A. Fig. 1A shows the CCFLs 10, a diffuser plate 12, and an LCD panel 14. Disadvantages of using CCFLs are that they require mercury, have a low color gamut, and have a limited brightness. Alternative solutions have been proposed that use LEDs, which use either a waveguide and edge illumination, or a direct backlight with side emitting LEDs (i.e., U.S. Application Ser. No. 10/442,346, assigned to Lumileds Lighting U.S. LLC). In both approaches, a long mixing length is created to deal with the flux and color variations that are inherent to LEDs. In the direct backlight approach, each LED illuminates a large area of the LCD, or, in other words, each pixel of the LCD is illuminated by a large number of LEDs such that variations in output of each LED do not show up in the LCD image. In the edge lit as well as the side-emitting direct backlight approach, the flux and color mixing properties come at an efficiency penalty. In U.S. Patent No. 6,582,103 B1 (to John Popovich et al, assigned to Teledyne Lighting and Display Products), low profile LED illumination fixtures are proposed, consisting of a cavity, including reflective walls, an output aperture, and at least one point source , such as an LED. In this patent, a diffuser covers the output aperture, and each LED includes a side-emitting lens. The solution presented in the present application does not require such side-emitting lens. Other distinguishing feature exist. A complete other illumination approach was introduced by Whitehead et al. of the University of British Columbia in Canada (WO 02/069030 A2; SID 03 Digest, Helge Seetzen, Lome A. Whitehead, A High Dynamic Range Display Using Low and High Resolution Modulators, p. 1450-1454), who proposed and demonstrated, as shown in Fig. 1B, an array of LEDs 16 directly behind the LCD 18. Only a few pixels 20 are illuminated by a single LED. The benefit of this approach is that the intensity of the LEDs can be modulated to represent the low spatial frequencies in the image, while the LCD modulates the high frequencies. The big advantage of this is that the dynamic range and contrast of the display are greatly enhanced (16 bit versus 8 bit displays). This is of great advantage in professional (e.g., medical) applications, but would create much better picture quality for an LCD display as well. One of the big challenges in this approach is the variation in color and flux of the LEDs. This is especially true if red, green, and blue LEDs are used to create white, but for white LEDs as well. Without a sufficient density of the LEDs, it will be very difficult to get adequate brightness uniformity with the configuration as suggested by Whitehead. Another disadvantage of this approach is the cost of the system. In the SID03 paper, it is suggested to place the LEDs at a pitch of 5mm. For a 37" diagonal LCD-TV, 16,000 LEDs would be required. Besides the cost, one has to cope with driver and connection reliability issues as well. A display device comprising:  The device of Claim 1 further comprising an LCD panel over the diffuser. The device of Claim 1 wherein the housing has a height, and wherein a ratio of the height to the pitch of the LEDs is between approximately 0.3 to 1.2. The device of Claim 1 wherein a pitch of the LEDs is greater than 20mm. The device of Claim 1 wherein each of the LEDs output light having red, green, and blue components. The device of Claim 1 wherein the LEDs comprise only blue LEDs. The device of Claim 1 wherein the LEDs comprise only UV or near-UV LEDs. The device of Claim 1 further comprising phosphor over the LEDs to convert light output by the LEDs into at least red and green light. The device of Claim 1 further comprising phosphor over the LEDs to convert light output by the LEDs into red, green, and blue light. The device of Claim 1 further comprising a phosphor layer beneath the diffuser. The device of Claim 1 further comprising a phosphor layer deposited on the diffuser. The device of Claim 1 further comprising phosphor surrounding top and side portions of each LED for color-converting light emitted by the LEDs. The device of Claim 1 wherein the diffuser comprises a phosphor, and the phosphor performs a diffusing function. The device of Claim 1 wherein a number of LEDs are connected in series, a total voltage drop across the serially connected LEDs approximately equaling a publicly supplied standard voltage. The device of Claim 1 wherein a number of LEDs are connected in series, a total voltage drop across the serially connected LEDs approximately equaling a publicly supplied standard AC supply voltage that has been rectified and filtered to be DC. The device of Claim 1 wherein a number of LEDs are connected in series, a total voltage drop across the serially connected LEDs approximately equaling a publicly supplied standard AC supply voltage that has been rectified and filtered to be DC, wherein LEDs in the array are connected to perform a rectification of the AC supply voltage. The device of Claim 1 wherein the LEDs are arranged in a rectangular grid. The device of Claim 1 wherein the LEDs are arranged in a hexagonal grid. The device of Claim 1 wherein the LEDs are connected in groups of series-connected LEDs. The device of Claim 1 wherein the LEDs are connected such that a light output of individual LEDs or a portion of the LED array can be independently controlled to adjust the light output to improve uniformity of the light applied to the LCD panel. The device of Claim 1 further comprising a plurality of light sensors in the housing for detecting an intensity of light, the sensors being coupled to a controller for controlling a brightness of LEDs associated with a sensor. The device of Claim 1 further comprising a plurality of light sensors in the housing for detecting an intensity of light, the sensors being coupled to a controller for controlling a gray scale level of pixels in the LCD panel. The device of Claim 1 further comprising:  The device of Claim 23 wherein a combination of the light emitted by the LEDs, the first type of phosphor, and the second type of phosphor produces a substantially white light for backlighting the LCD panel. The device of Claim 23 wherein the first type of phosphor is in the form of dots. The device of Claim 25 wherein the dots are deposited on the diffuser. The device of Claim 23 wherein the first type of phosphor converts blue light to one of red light or green light, and the second type of phosphor converts blue light to the other of red light and green light. The device of Claim 1 further comprising a phosphor layer for converting light from the LEDs to one or more other colors, the phosphor layer being formed on the LCD panel. The device of Claim 28 wherein the phosphor layer is formed on a thin film transistor transparent layer in the LCD panel The device of Claim 1 wherein the reflective bottom surface in the housing comprises a bottom surface forming the housing. A method for constructing a display comprising:  The method of Claim 31 further comprising an LCD panel over the diffuser. <seperator>EP-1844947-A1<id_sep>subgroupB41M5slash30subgroup sectionBsection subgroupB41M5slash337subgroup subclassB41Msubclass classB41class THERMOSENSITIVE RECORDING MEDIUM A thermally sensitive recording medium laminating a protecting layer on a thermally sensitive recording layer containing a colorless or pale colored electron donating leuco dye and electron accepting color developing agent, said thermally sensitive recording layer is formed on a substrate, and said protecting layer is comprising a resin that contains a carboxyl group, epichlorohydrin resin and modified polyamine/amide resin, and said thermally sensitive recording medium exhibits sufficient resistance against water such as rain or humidity, further excellent in printing run-ability (head debris and sticking) and sensitivity. The present invention relates to a thermally sensitive recording medium which is excellent in water resistance, printing run-ability (head debris, sticking) and sensitivity In general, a thermally sensitive recording medium is obtained by coating a coating liquid on a substrate such as paper, synthetic paper, film or plastic, wherein said coating liquid is prepared by grinding and dispersing respectively a colorless or pale colored electron donating leuco dye and an electron accepting color developing agent such as phenolic compound to fine particles, then mixing them together, adding binder, filler, sensitizer, slipping agent and other additives. The obtained thermally sensitive recording medium develops color by instant chemical reaction by heating using a thermal head, a hot stamp, a thermal pen or by heating by laser light and a recorded image can be obtained. A thermally sensitive recording medium is widely used in a terminal printer of facsimile or computer, an automatic ticket vending machine or a recorder for measuring instrument, and along with the diversification of uses, high level image stability and stability of blanc part are becoming to be required to the thermally sensitive recording medium. However, since an electron donating leuco dye and an electron accepting color developing agent contained in a thermally sensitive recording layer can be easily dissolved in many kinds of solvent, the thermally sensitive recording medium has a problem that blanc part develops color easily when contacted with water ink, oil ink or adhesive and a problem that, when a chemical such as plasticizer is adhered to the developed recorded image, the image is discolored. For the purpose to dissolve said problems, a technique to form a protecting layer which is mainly composed of a pigment and resin on a thermally sensitive recording layer is disclosed in Patent Document 1 and Patent Document 2. Further, the use of a thermally sensitive recording medium is expanding to various kinds of tickets, a receipt, a label, use for an auto talking machine of Bank, use for inspection of a gas or electric meter or a note for betting-ticket for horse racing or cycle racing, therefore, very severe characteristics, which are not required up to the present, are becoming to be required to a thermally sensitive recording medium. In cases of these uses, since the outdoor use is becoming more often, characteristics and properties of a protecting layer that can endure more severe atmosphere, such as rain or very high humid, direct sunshine or inside of car at summer season, are becoming more necessary compared with conventional use. As the components that compose a protecting layer, for example, water soluble polymers such as polyvinyl alcohol or starch are used as main components. For the purpose to provide water resistance to these components, the technique to use a crosslinking agent such as glyoxal is disclosed in Patent Document 3 and Patent Document 4, but the effect is not sufficient yet. Especially, in Patent Document 4, carboxy modified polyvinyl alcohol is used as a binder for protecting layer, epichlorohydrin and glyoxal are used as a crosslinking agent, and this technique is to provide water resistance to the carboxy modified polyvinyl alcohol by carrying out crosslinking reaction of epichlorohydrin with carboxyl group of the carboxy modified polyvinyl alcohol and by carrying out crosslinking reacting of glyoxal with hydroxyl group of the carboxy modified polyvinyl alcohol and. However, since crosslinking reaction rate is too slow, water resistance is not accomplished instantly and it is difficult to display sufficient effect just after coating and drying process. Accordingly, in a case to use epichlorohydrin as a crosslinking agent, long time heat treatment, that is, curing process is necessary, and problems of background coloring or workability, namely, product can not be obtained immediately after production are caused. Further, the water resistance under severe condition is not sufficient because the crosslinked part is easily hydrolyzed. A thermally sensitive recording medium having a protecting layer on a thermally sensitive recording layer containing a colorless or pale colored electron donating leuco dye and electron accepting color developing agent, said thermally sensitive recording layer is formed on a substrate, and said protecting layer is comprising a resin that contains a carboxyl group, epichlorohydrin resin and modified polyamine/amide resin. The thermally sensitive recording medium of claim 1, wherein the thermally sensitive recording layer contains a resin that contains a carboxyl group. The thermally sensitive recording medium of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the resin that contains a carboxyl group contained in the protecting layer is carboxy modified polyvinylalcohol. The thermally sensitive recording medium according to anyone of claims 2 to 3, wherein the resin that contains a carboxyl group contained in the thermally sensitive recording layer is carboxy modified polyvinylalcohol. The thermally sensitive recording medium according to anyone of claims 1 to 4, wherein said protecting layer contains kaolin and/or aluminum hydroxide. The thermally sensitive recording medium of claim 5, wherein aspect ratio of kaolin contained in the protecting layer is 20 or more. The thermally sensitive recording medium according to anyone of claims 1 to 6, wherein molecular weight of epichlorohydrin resin contained in the protecting layer is 500,000 or more and cationic degree of it is 5meq/100g or less. The thermally sensitive recording medium according to anyone of claims 1 to 7, wherein modified polyamine/amide resin is polyalkylene polyamide resin and/or polyalkylene polyamine resin. The thermally sensitive recording medium according to anyone of claims 1 to 8, wherein said thermally sensitive recording layer contains epichlorohydrin resin. <seperator>EP-1743801-A1<id_sep>sectionBsection groupB60Q3slash00group subgroupB60Q1slash32subgroup subclassB60Qsubclass classB60class subgroupB60Q3slash02subgroup Lighting apparatus of vehicle door An apparatus is provided that makes it possible to make following cars aware when a door is open and simultaneously illuminate a feet area, including, a lens (4) that is attached at a door position that faces the feet area when a vehicle door (1) is open, and a light guide member (3) that is attached at a door position that faces following cars. One or more LEDs for the feet area (5) are provided on the inner side of the lens (4), and one or more LEDs for the rear direction (6) are provided that irradiate light on the light guide member (3).  The present invention relates to a lighting apparatus of a vehicle door for illuminating the feet area of the door when a vehicle door is open and also for making following cars aware that the vehicle door is open. As a lighting apparatus that makes following cars aware that a vehicle door is open according to the prior art, an apparatus is known in which a light source (lamp, LED, etc.) is provided in biparting doors at a location in a rear door that faces the rear side of the vehicle when the rear door is open ( However, the apparatuses disclosed in SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION An aspect of the present invention is to provide a lighting apparatus of a vehicle door that can make following cars aware when a door is open and simultaneously illuminate a feet area. To attain the above aspect, a first exemplary, non-limiting embodiment of the present invention provides an apparatus in which a lens is mounted at a door position that faces a feet area when a vehicle door is open and a light guide member is mounted at a door position that faces following cars, wherein one or a plurality of LEDs for the feet area are provided on an inner side of the lens, and one or a plurality of LEDs for the rear direction are provided that irradiate light on the light guide member. According to a second exemplary, non-limiting aspect of the present invention there is provided an apparatus having both a courtesy lamp function and a function as a warning lamp for following cars, in which a lens is provided at a door position that faces a feet area when a vehicle door is open and a light guide member is provided at a door position that faces following cars, wherein one or a plurality of LEDs for the feet area are provided on an inner side of the lens, and one or a plurality of LEDs for the rear direction are provided that irradiate light on the light guide member. Not only does this apparatus enhance safety by making it possible to confirm from the rear that a door is open and make it easier for passengers to get in or out by illuminating the feet area of passengers, but it also makes it possible to reduce the number of LEDs by using a light guide member. Further, by mounting the LEDs in a flexible printed circuit (FPC)-, the internal wiring of the LEDs can be easily integrated, a weight reduction can be achieved, and the number of parts can also be decreased to reduce costs.  Hereunder, exemplary, non-limiting embodiments of the present invention are described with reference to the drawings. FIG. 1 is an oblique perspective view of a vehicle door 1. FIG. 1 shows a state in which a lighting apparatus 2 according to an exemplary, non-limiting embodiment of the present invention is mounted in a door trim of the vehicle door 1. Only a light guide member 3 of the lighting apparatus 2 is illustrated in FIG. 1. Although FIG. 1 shows a vehicle door 1 that is commonly used for an ordinary passenger car, the lighting apparatus 2 can also be applied to a door having a hinge on the rear side, a sliding door, a back door or the like. A lighting apparatus of a vehicle door, comprising:  The lighting apparatus of a vehicle door according to claim 1, wherein a reflecting member is provided on a surface other than an emitting surface of the light guide member, and light is emitted from one end side of the light guide member to irradiate light in a rear direction of the vehicle. The lighting apparatus of a vehicle door according to claim 1, wherein the LEDs for the feet area and LEDs for the rear direction are integrated. The lighting apparatus of a vehicle door according to claim 1, wherein the light guide member is formed along a curve extending from a side surface to an under surface of the vehicle door. The lighting apparatus of a vehicle door according to claim 1, wherein the light guide member is formed with acrylic resin. The lighting apparatus of a vehicle door according to claim 1, wherein the LEDs for the rear direction are a different color than the LEDs for the feet area. The lighting apparatus of a vehicle door according to claim 1, wherein an internal wiring of the LEDs for the feet area and LEDs for the rear direction is implemented by a rigid printed board and an electric wire. The lighting apparatus of a vehicle door according to claim 1, wherein a plurality of the LEDs for the feet area is provided and at least one LED among these LEDs is disposed at an illumination angle that is different to an illumination angle of other LEDs. The lighting apparatus of a vehicle door according to claim 1, wherein the one or more LEDs for the rear direction are disposed on an inner side of the light guide member. The lighting apparatus of a vehicle door according to claim 1, wherein the one or more LEDs for the rear direction are disposed on a lower end side of the light guide member. The lighting apparatus of a vehicle door according to claim 1, wherein the lens and the light guide member are contained within the same unit. A lighting apparatus of a vehicle door according to claim 1, wherein an internal wiring of the LEDs for the feet area and LEDs for the rear direction is a flexible printed board. The lighting apparatus of a vehicle door according to claim 12, wherein a reflecting member is provided on a surface other than an emitting surface of the light guide member, and light is emitted from one end side of the light guide member to irradiate light in a rear direction of the vehicle. The lighting apparatus of a vehicle door according to claim 12, wherein the LEDs for the feet area and LEDs for the rear direction are integrated. The lighting apparatus of a vehicle door according to claim 12, wherein the light guide member is formed along a curve extending from a side surface to an under surface of the vehicle door. The lighting apparatus of a vehicle door according to claim 12, wherein the light guide member is formed with acrylic resin. The lighting apparatus of a vehicle door according to claim 12, wherein the LEDs for the rear direction are a different color than the LEDs for the feet area. The lighting apparatus of a vehicle door according to claim 12, wherein a plurality of the LEDs for the feet area is provided and at least one LED among these LEDs is disposed at an illumination angle that is different to an illumination angle of other LEDs. The lighting apparatus of a vehicle door according to claim 12, wherein the one or more LEDs for the rear direction are disposed on an inner side of the light guide member. The lighting apparatus of a vehicle door according to claim 12, wherein the one or more LEDs for the rear direction are disposed on a lower end side of the light guide member. The lighting apparaturs of a vehicle door according to claim 12, wherein the lens and the light guide member are contained within the same unit. <seperator>EP-1416541-A2<id_sep>sectionHsection subclassC23Csubclass classH01class subgroupH01B1slash08subgroup subgroupC03C17slash23subgroup subgroupC03C17slash34subgroup subclassH01Lsubclass subgroupC23C14slash06subgroup classC03class subgroupC03C17slash245subgroup subgroupH01B5slash14subgroup subgroupH01L31slash10subgroup groupH01B13slash00group subgroupH01L31slash0224subgroup subgroupH01L31slash04subgroup classC23class subclassH01Bsubclass subclassC03Csubclass subgroupH01L31slash18subgroup sectionCsection subgroupC23C14slash08subgroup Transparent oxide electrode film and manufacturing method thereof, transparent electroconductive base Material, solar cell and photo detection element A transparent oxide electrode film is provided to have crystalline indium oxide as its main component, in which the indium in the indium oxide is substituted with titanium at a titanium/indium atomic ratio between 0.003 and 0.120, and the resistivity of the transparent oxide electrode film is 5.7 x 10 Technical Field of the Invention The present invention relates to a transparent oxide electrode film with low resistance and high transmittance, and a transparent conductive base material, solar cell and photo detection element using this transparent oxide electrode film. Background of the Invention Transparent oxide electrode films have both high conductivity, and high transmittance of the visible light spectrum. Consequently, transparent oxide electrode films are used as the electrodes in solar cells, liquid crystal display elements, and various other photodetectors. In particular, transparent oxide electrode films formed using sputtering targets or ion plating tablets which can form transparent oxide electrode films with low resistance and high transmittance, can make sufficient use of solar energy, and are suitable for use in solar cells. Widely used varieties of transparent oxide electrode films include tin oxide (SnO Because these films are transparent oxide electrode films which have high carrier electron concentration, and excellent reflection and absorption characteristics for near infrared wavelengths, they are also used as heat reflecting film for car window glass or building window glass, as a variety of antistatic coatings, and as transparent heating elements for defogging freezing display cases and the like. Frequently used methods for manufacturing the transparent oxide electrode films mentioned above include sputtering methods and evaporation methods, ion plating methods, and methods involving the application of a transparent conductive layer formation coating. In particular, sputtering methods and ion plating methods are effective when forming a film on a film deposition material (referred to simply as the "substrate" below) using a material with low vapor pressure, or when precise film thickness control is required, and are widely used because of their extreme ease of operation. In a sputtering method, generally a film is formed by causing a glow discharge to occur between the substrate acting as the anode and a target acting as the cathode, under an argon gas pressure below approximately 10 Pa, to generate argon plasma, and then causing the positive argon ions within the plasma to strike the cathode target, thereby ejecting particles of the target component, and causing these particles to be deposited on the substrate. Sputtering methods are classified according to the method used to generate argon plasma, and those methods which use RF plasma are called RF sputtering methods, while those using direct current plasma are called DC sputtering methods. Furthermore, methods in which a film is deposited by providing a magnet behind the target and concentrating argon plasma directly onto the target, to raise the collision efficiency of the argon ions even under low pressure, are called magnetron sputtering methods. Normally, a DC magnetron sputtering method is used to manufacture the transparent oxide electrode films described above. Furthermore, sometimes plasma obtained by superposing radio frequency on a base direct current plasma is used. This is called RF superimposed DC sputtering, and enables the discharge voltage to be lowered. RF superimposed DC sputtering is often used when creating an oxide film using an oxide target. Because sputtering can be performed at a low discharge voltage, the bombardment of the film by oxygen ions produced from the target can be minimized, and a good quality film can be obtained. A transparent oxide electrode film having indium oxide containing titanium as its main component, wherein indium in said indium oxide is substituted with titanium at a titanium/indium atomic ratio between 0.003 and 0.120, said indium oxide is crystalline, and the resistivity of said transparent oxide electrode film is up to 5.7 × 10-4 Ωcm. A transparent oxide electrode film according to claim 1, wherein said titanium/indium atomic ratio is between 0.003 and 0.050, and the resistivity of said transparent oxide electrode film is up to 4.0 × 10-4 Ωcm. A transparent oxide electrode film according to either one of claim 1 and claim 2, wherein the average light transmittance for wavelengths between 1000 nm and 1400 nm is at least 60%. A transparent oxide electrode film according to any one of claim 1 through claim 3, wherein the carrier electron concentration given by Hall effect measurement is up to 5.5 × 1020 cm-3. A transparent oxide electrode film according to claim 4, wherein the carrier electron concentration given by Hall effect measurement is up to 4.0 × 1020 cm-3. A transparent oxide electrode film according to any one of claim 1 through claim 5, wherein the carrier electron mobility given by Hall effect measurement is at least 40 cm2/Vsec. A transparent oxide electrode film according to claim 6, wherein the carrier electron mobility given by Hall effect measurement is at least 60 cm2/Vsec. A transparent oxide electrode film according to claim 6, wherein the carrier electron mobility given by Hall effect measurement is at least 70 cm2/Vsec. A transparent oxide electrode film having indium oxide containing titanium and tungsten as its main component, wherein indium in said indium oxide is substituted with titanium and tungsten at a ratio which when the titanium/indium atomic ratio is deemed x and the tungsten/indium atomic ratio is deemed y, satisfies an equation (1), 0.019 - 1.90x ≤ y ≤ 0.034 - 0.28x and wherein said indium oxide is crystalline, and the resistivity is up to 5.7 × 10-4 Ωcm. A transparent oxide electrode film according to claim 9, wherein when the titanium/indium atomic ratio is deemed x and the tungsten/indium atomic ratio is deemed y, said ratio satisfies an equation (2) 0.019 - 1.27x ≤ y ≤ 0.034 - 0.68x and wherein said resistivity is up to 3.8 × 10-4 Ωcm. A transparent oxide electrode film according to either one of claim 9 and claim 10, wherein the average light transmittance for wavelengths between 1000 nm and 1400 nm is at least 60%. A transparent oxide electrode film according to any one of claim 9 to claim 11, wherein the carrier electron concentration given by Hall effect measurement is up to 5.5 × 1020 cm-3. A transparent oxide electrode film according to claim 12, wherein the carrier electron concentration given by Hall effect measurement is up to 4.0 × 1020 cm-3. A transparent oxide electrode film according to any one of claim 9 through claim 13, wherein the carrier electron mobility given by Hall effect measurement is at least 40 cm2/Vsec. A transparent oxide electrode film according to claim 14, wherein the carrier electron mobility given by Hall effect measurement is at least 60 cm2/Vsec. A transparent oxide electrode film according to claim 15, wherein the carrier electron mobility given by Hall effect measurement is at least 70 cm2/Vsec. A manufacturing method for a transparent oxide electrode film according to any one of claim 1 through clam 16, wherein said transparent oxide electrode film is deposited by a sputtering method using either a sputtering target manufactured from an oxide sintered body for which the constituent elements are substantially indium, titanium and oxygen, or a sputtering target manufactured from an oxide sintered body for which the constituent elements are substantially indium, titanium, tungsten and oxygen, at a substrate temperature of at least 100°C, using a mixed gas of argon and oxygen containing at least 0.25% oxygen as the sputtering gas. A transparent electroconductive base material, wherein a transparent oxide electrode film according to any one of claim 1 through 16 is formed on a transparent substrate. A transparent electroconductive base material of Claim 18, wherein the average light transmittance in the wave length range from 1000 nm to 1400 nm is at least 60%, and wherein the surface resistance is up to 30 Ω/□. A solar cell, which uses a transparent oxide electrode film according to any one of claim 1 through 16. A solar cell according to claim 19 having a sequentially layered construction comprising either one of a substrate on which an electrode layer is provided and a conductive metal substrate, and further comprising a light absorbing layer of a p-type semiconductor provided on said substrate, a middle layer of an n-type semiconductor provided on said light absorbing layer, a window layer of a semiconductor provided on said middle layer, and an n-type transparent electrode layer provided on said window layer, wherein a transparent oxide electrode film according to any one of claim 1 to claim 16 is used as said transparent electrode layer. A solar cell according to claim 20 having a sequentially layered construction comprising a transparent electrode layer provided on a transparent substrate, a window layer of a semiconductor provided on said transparent electrode layer, a middle layer of an n-type semiconductor provided on said window layer, and a light absorbing layer of a p-type semiconductor provided on said middle layer, wherein a transparent oxide electrode film according to any one of claim 1 to claim 16 is used as said transparent electrode layer. A solar cell according to either one of claim 21 and claim 22, wherein said light absorbing layer is at least one member selected from the group of CuInSe2, CuInS2, CuGaSe2, CuGaS2 and a solid solution of these compounds, and CdTe. A solar cell according to any one of claim 21 through claim 23, wherein said middle layer is either one of a solution precipitated CdS layer and a (Cd, Zn) S layer, A solar cell according to any one of claim 21 through claim 24, wherein said window layer is either one of ZnO and (Zn, Mg) O. A photo detection element comprising a pair of electrodes and a layer of photo detection materials interposed between the said electrodes, wherein the transparent oxide electrode film according to any one of claim 1 through claim 16 is used as at least one of the said electrodes. A photo detection element according to claim 26, wherein the said layer of photo detection materilas is a layer of infrared light detection materials and the photo detection element is for detecting infrared light. <seperator>EP-1406352-A1<id_sep>subclassH01Qsubclass subgroupH01R13slash24subgroup sectionHsection subgroupH01Q1slash12subgroup subgroupH01R13slash22subgroup classH01class subclassH01Rsubclass subgroupH01R4slash04subgroup groupH01R4slash00group subgroupH01R9slash05subgroup Electrical cable connector An electrical connector (70) includes a housing (72) having a cavity (78) and a surface (77) for engaging a window. The connector (70) includes first and second compressible conductive contacts (74,76) disposed within the cavity (78) of the housing (72) and in electrical contact with circuit elements in a coaxial cable (80). The compressible conductive contacts (74,76) are compressed to contact circuit elements (66,68) formed on the window (10) when the surface (77) of the housing (70) is engaged to the window to provide electrical connections.  Technical Field The present invention generally relates to electrical connections between circuit elements and, more particularly, to an electrical connector for connecting an electrical cable to circuitry on a dielectric medium, such as a glass window. Background of the Invention Many automotive vehicles are equipped with a backlite antenna element embedded in a rear window of the vehicle. Additionally, a vehicle window may include defogger elements that transmit electrical current to generate heat on the window. Some vehicles incorporate the antenna element and the defogger elements integrated within a single window. Examples of antenna elements and defogger elements are disclosed in U.S. Patent Nos. 6,307,516, 6,266,023, and 6,211,831, the entire disclosures of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference. The antenna and defogger elements provided on a window of a vehicle typically include termination input/output contact pads which are electrically coupled to other circuitry within the vehicle. For example, a radio antenna may include a radio frequency (RF) signal line electrically coupled to the central conductor in a coaxial cable. The coaxial cable typically includes a conductive ground shield formed around the central RF signal line. For resistive defogger elements, the input and output contact pads may be electrically coupled to a voltage supply and a return ground line for providing a current path through the defogger elements. Conventional vehicle window mounted antennas and defogger elements typically are connected to a coaxial cable having metal connectors forming male members which are inserted into female connectors coupled to the contact pads on the window. The coaxial cables are typically attached to an electronic module, such as antenna amplifiers, filters, etc., via mechanical pressed together connections formed on loose electrical lead lines. The electrical leads of the cable are first attached to connectors via a crimping/stacking/soldering process. During installation, the male connectors are inserted into the female connectors on the module. This installation process typically requires a degree of skill and strength to matingly seat the connectors. Often the coaxial cable is inserted into the module before installation of the module into the vehicle to facilitate cable/module installation. However, rough handling (e.g., using the cable as a handle) can compromise the electrical connections in the cable and/or the module. Accordingly, it is therefore desirable to provide for an electrical connector for connecting a cable to electrical circuitry formed on a dielectric medium, such as a glass window, that allows for easy assembly with reduced metal-to-metal terminal contacts and reduced soldering. Summary of the Invention In accordance with the teachings of the present invention, an electrical connector is provided for electrically coupling a first circuit element in a cable to a second circuit element on a dielectric medium. The electrical connector includes a housing connected to an electrical cable having a first circuit element. The housing has a cavity and a surface for engaging a dielectric medium. The electrical connector includes a compressible conductive contact disposed within the cavity of the housing and electrically coupled to the first circuit element. The conductive contact is compressed to contact a second circuit element formed on the dielectric medium when the surface of the housing is engaged to the dielectric medium to provide an electrical connection. An electrical connector (70) for electrically coupling a first circuit element (82) in a cable (80) to a second circuit element (66) on a dielectric medium (10), said connector (70) comprising:  The electrical connector as defined in claim 1, wherein the electrical cable comprises a coaxial cable (80). The electrical connector as defined in claim 2 further comprising a second compressible conductive contact (76) disposed in the cavity (78) of the housing (72) and electrically coupled to a third circuit element (86) in the coaxial cable (80), wherein the second compressible contact (76) is compressed to contact a fourth circuit element (68) formed on the dielectric medium (10) when the surface (77) of the housing (72) is engaged to the dielectric medium (10) to form an electrical connection. The electrical connector as defined in claim 1, wherein the dielectric medium comprises glass (10). The electrical connector as defined in claim 4, wherein the glass comprises a window (10) on a vehicle. The electrical connector as defined in claim 1, wherein the first compressible conductive contact (74) is connected to the first circuit element (82) via a conductive adhesive (96). The electrical connector as defined in claim 1, wherein the housing (72) is molded to the electrical cable (80) containing the first circuit element (82). The electrical connector as defined in claim 1, wherein the surface (77) of the housing (72) is engaged to the dielectric medium (10) via an adhesive (110). The electrical connector as defined in claim 1, wherein the housing (72') is electrically conductive and is electrically coupled to a third circuit element (68) and a fourth circuit element (88'). <seperator>EP-1548955-A1<id_sep>groupH04J13slash00group classH04class sectionHsection subclassH04Bsubclass subclassH04Jsubclass subgroupH04B7slash005subgroup subgroupH04B7slash26subgroup A method for improving the performances of a mobile radiocommunication system using a power control algorithm One object of the invention is a method for improving the performances of a mobile radiocommunication system using a power control algorithm, said power control algorithm including an inner-loop power control algorithm for adjusting a transmit power according to received power control commands, said method including:  The present invention is generally concerned with mobile radiocommunication systems. The present invention is in particular applicable to third generation mobile radiocommunication systems, such as in particular UMTS (Universal Mobile Telecommunication System). In a general way, mobile radiocommunication systems are subject to standardisation; therefore, for more information on such systems, it is possible to refer to the corresponding standards, published by the corresponding standardisation bodies, such as for example 3GPP (« 3 The general architecture of a mobile radiocommunication system such as in particular a system of UMTS type is recalled in figure 1. The system comprises a mobile radiocomunication network communicating wih mobile terminals or UE (« User Equipement ») and with external networks (not specifically illustrated). The mobile radiocommunication network comprises: Third generation systems, in particular of UMTS type, use a radio access technology of W-CDMA type (where W-CDMA stands for « Wideband - Code Division Multiple Access »). The UTRAN comprises base stations called « Node B », and base station controllers called RNC (« Radio Network Controller »). The UTRAN is in relation, on the one hand with mobile terminals UE, via an interface called « Uu interface » (or radio interface), and on the other hand with the CN via an interface called « lu interface ». Within the UTRAN, the Nodes B communicate with the RNCs via an interface called « lub interface » and an interface called « lur interface » may also be provided between RNCs. Power control techniques are generally used in such systems, in particular in systems using a radio access technology of CDMA or W-CDMA type, to improve performances (in terms of quality of service, of capacity,...etc.). Such power control techniques in particular include closed-loop power control algorithms, which in turn include inner-loop algorithms and outer-loop algorithms. The principle of the closed-loop power control algorithm is now recalled, for the downlink for example. In the inner-loop algorithm, the UE periodically estimates the SIR of the signal received from the Node B, and compares this estimated SIR to a target SIR (SIR For example, for systems such as UMTS, such a closed-loop power control algorithm is specified in Technical Specification 3GPP TS 25.214. Further, in the 3GPP standard (release R99 and later releases), an algorithm, known as limited power raise algorithm' has been specified, see in particular section 5.2.1.2.2 of TS 25. 214 V5.6.0 (2003-09). The aim of this algorithm is to avoid increasing too rapidly the Node B transmit power. Indeed, in case of deep fading hole, it is preferable to not increase the power too much, since in any case, the power increase will not be fast enough to avoid loosing some data, and since this power increase would cost a significant power resources (that could not be used by other UEs). In summary, the limited power raise algorithm as currently specified in the standard is the following: A power control command requiring a power increase, or UP power control command , or UP TPC (where TPC stands for Transmit Power Control), is not applied if the transmit power would be increased by more than A method for improving the performances of a mobile radiocommunication system using a power control algorithm, said power control algorithm including an inner-loop power control algorithm for adjusting a transmit power according to received power control commands, said method including:  A method according to claim 1, wherein said at least one other factor corresponds to at least one power limitation, said step of determining including taking into account that a power adjustment does not result in any power variation beyond the reaching of a power limit (Maximum_DL_Power, Minimum_DL_Power). A method according to any of claims 1 to 2, wherein said cumulative power variation is determined based on an adjusted power (P(k)) including different types of power adjustments and said at least one other factor corresponds to at least one other type of power adjustment, other than a power adjustment (PTPC(k)) due to said inner-loop power control algorithm. A method according to claim 3, wherein said at least one other type of power adjustment corresponds to a correction (Pbal(k)) according to a downlink power control procedure for balancing radio link powers towards a common reference power. A method according to any of claims 3 or 4, wherein one other type of power adjustment corresponds to a power adjustment (Psir(k)) due to a target SIR variation in compressed mode, and is substracted from said adjusted power (P(k)), for determining said cumulative power variation. A method according to any of claims 1 to 2, wherein said cumulative power variation is determined based on power adjustments (PTPC(k)) due to said inner-loop power control algorithm. A method according to any of claims 1 to 6, wherein said step of determining a cumulative power variation includes determining a value Δsum (k) which is such that:    with:  A method according to any of claims 1to 6, wherein said step of determining a cumulative power variation includes determining a value Δsum (k) which is such that:     with:  A method according to any of claims 1 to 6, wherein said step of determining a cumulative power variation includes determining a value Δsum (k) which is such that:     with:  An equipment for a mobile radiocommunication system, comprising means for performing a method according to any of claims 1 to 9: An equipement (10) according to claim 10, comprising:  An equipement according to claim 11, wherein said means (12) for determining a cumulative power variation comprise means for determining a value Δsum (k) which is such that:     with:  An equipement according to claim 11, wherein said means (12) for determining a cumulative power variation comprise means for determininq a value Δsum (k) which is such that:     with:  An equipement according to claim 11, wherein said means (12) for determining a cumulative power variation comprise means for determining a value Δsum (k) which is such that:     with:  An equipment according to any of claims 10 to 13, corresponding to a network equipment. An equipment according to claim 14, corresponding to a base station. An equipment according to any of claims 10 to 13, corresponding to a mobile terminal. A mobile radiocommunication system, comprising at least one equipment according to any of claims 10 to 17. <seperator>EP-1364975-A1<id_sep>groupC08F4slash00group subgroupC08F4slash70subgroup subclassC08Fsubclass sectionCsection groupC08F32slash00group subgroupC08F2slash38subgroup classC08class PROCESSES FOR PRODUCING CYCLOOLEFIN ADDITION POLYMER A cyclic olefin having a specific polar group is polymerized by addition polymerization in a hydrocarbon solvent, using a polymerization catalyst component containing (i) a specific transition metal compound, (ii) a Lewis acid compound and (iii) an alkyl aluminoxane, or the cyclic olefin is polymerized by addition polymerization in the hydrocarbon solvent, using the polymerization catalyst component, by further adding at least one aromatic vinyl compound and at least one cyclic nonconjugated polyene compound, or either one of them as a molecular weight modifier, thereby obtaining a cyclic olefinic addition polymer. The present invention relates to a method for producing a cyclic olefinic addition polymer. More particularly, the present invention is characterized in that a monomer component containing at least one cyclic olefin having a polar group is polymerized by addition polymerization in a hydrocarbon solvent, using a specific catalyst without a necessity for a large amount of an alkyl aluminoxane. Further, the present invention relates to a method for producing a cyclic olefinic addition polymer having an aromatic vinyl group at a polymer terminal. Still further, the present invention relates to a method for producing a cyclic olefinic addition polymer controlled in molecular weight and molecular weight distribution. Yet still further, the present invention relates to a method for improving polymerization activity in the production of a cyclic olefinic addition polymer. In recent years, as resinification in the optical material and electronic material fields proceeds, accompanied by a demand for a decrease in size and weight, and increase in density of electronic instruments, resins excellent in heat resistance, mechanical strength, moisture absorption resistance, dimensional stability, solvent resistance and the like, as well as optical transparency, have been desired. For example, in liquid crystal display devices in which glass substrates have hitherto been used, plastic substrates have recently been used for weight saving and a reduction in breakage in dropping. However, materials used are required to have extremely high heat resistance, in respect to their production process. As plastic materials having high transparency, heat resistance and the like as described above, cyclic olefin polymers have been proposed. As the cyclic olefin polymers, there have hitherto been proposed hydrogenated ring-opening polymers (Japanese Patent Laid-open Publication (Sho) 60-26024, Japanese Patent No. 3050196, Japanese Patent Laid-open Publication (Hei) 1-132625, Japanese Patent Laid-open Publication (Hei) 1-132625, etc.), addition copolymers of cyclic olefins and ethylene [Japanese Patent Laid-open Publication (Sho) 61-292601, Makromol. Chem. Macromol. Symp. Vol. 47, 83 (1991), etc.], addition copolymers of cyclic olefins (Japanese Patent Laid-open Publication (Hei) 4-63807, Japanese Patent Laid-open Publication (Hei) 8-198919, Published Japanese Translation of PCT Application (Hei) 9-508649, Published Japanese Translation of PCT Application (Hei) 11-505880, etc.) and the like. Of these, the hydrogenated ring-opening polymers are not necessarily satisfactory in respect to heat resistance, because it is difficult to achieve a glass transition temperature of 200°C or higher. Further, double bonds not hydrogenated often remain in trace amounts in molecular chains, which causes the problems of coloring at high temperatures and the like in some cases. Many addition copolymers of cyclic olefins, obtained by metallocene catalysts using zirconium, titanium and the like are reported. It is also reported that insoluble, infusible cyclic olefinic addition polymers are obtained by the metallocene catalysts. However, the metallocene catalysts exhibit only extremely low polymerization activity on polar group-containing monomers, so that the introduction of polar groups is difficult. Further, in order to obtain high polymerization activity, catalyst components demand complicated structures, and multistep synthesis are required. Moreover, large amounts of aluminoxane are necessary as a cocatalyst. Accordingly, cost associated with the catalysts rises, and complicated processes have been required for removal of the catalysts. A method for producing a cyclic olefinic addition polymer, which is characterized in that a cyclic olefin containing at least one substituted norbornene represented by the following formula (2) is polymerized by addition polymerization in a hydrocarbon solvent, using a polymerization catalyst component containing (i) a transition metal compound represented by the following formula (1), (ii) a Lewis acid compound and (iii) an alkyl aluminoxane: [L1MX] [An] [in formula (1), M is a groups 8 to 10 transition metal in the periodic table, L is a neutral ligand or a solvent molecule, 1 is from 0 to 3, X is a β-diketonate anion or a carboxylic acid anion having a linear or branched alkyl group having 1 to 12 carbon atoms, and An is a non-coordinating or weakly coordinating anion.]  [in formula (2), at least one of A1, A2, A3 and A4 is a polar group represented by -(CR1R2)qZ, and the others, which are the same or different, each represents a hydrogen atom, a halogen atom, an alkyl group having 1 to 10 carbon atoms, an haloalkyl group, an aralkyl group, a cycloalkyl group or an aryl group, wherein Z represents -C(O)R3, -OC(O)R4, -C(O)OR5 or -SiY1Y2Y3, R1 to R5, which are the same or different, each represents a hydrogen atom, a hydrocarbon group having 1 to 10 carbon atoms or a halogenated hydrocarbon group; Y1 to Y3 are the same or different, at least one is a halogen atom, an alkoxyl group, an allyloxy group or a siloxy group, and the others each represents a hydrogen atom, a hydrocarbon group having 1 to 10 carbon atoms or a halogenated hydrocarbon group; A1 and A2, or A1 and A3 may be cyclized to form a lactone or an acid anhydride; and p and q each represent an integer of 0 to 3.] A method for producing a cyclic olefinic addition polymer, which comprises further adding at least one aromatic vinyl compound and at least one cyclic nonconjugated polyene compound, or either one of them as a molecular weight modifier in conducting addition polymerization of a cyclic olefin in a hydrocarbon solvent, using a polymerization catalyst component containing (i) a transition metal compound represented by the above-mentioned formula (1), (ii) a Lewis acid compound and (iii) an alkyl aluminoxane. The method for producing a cyclic olefinic addition polymer of claim 2, in which the cyclic olefin comprises at least one substituted norbornene represented by the above-mentioned formula (2). The method for producing a cyclic olefinic addition polymer according to any one of claims 1 to 3, in which the cyclic olefin comprises at least one substituted norbornene represented by the following formula (3):  [in formula (3), Y1 to Y3 are the same or different, at least one is a halogen atom, an alkoxyl group, an allyloxy group or a siloxy group, and the others each represents a hydrogen atom, a hydrocarbon group having 1 to 10 carbon atoms or a halogenated hydrocarbon group; and p represents an integer of 0 to 3.] The method for producing a cyclic olefinic addition polymer according to any one of claims 1, 3 and 4, in which in addition to the substituted norbornene represented by the above-mentioned formula (2) at least one non-polar cyclic olefin represented by the following formula (4) is further copolymerized:  [in formula (4), B1, B2, B3 and B4, which are the same or different, each represents a hydrogen atom, a halogen atom, an alkyl group having 1 to 10 carbon atoms, an haloalkyl group, an aralkyl group, a cycloalkyl group or an aryl group, B1 and B2 may form an alkylidene group, and B1 and B3 may be joined to each other to form an alkylene group, a cycloalkylene group, a cycloalkenylene group, an alkenylene group or arylene group; and r represents an integer of 0 to 3.] The method for producing a cyclic olefinic addition polymer according to any one of claims 2 to 5, in which the aromatic vinyl compound is styrene or a substituted styrene. The method for producing a cyclic olefinic addition polymer according to any one of claims 2 to 5, in which the cyclic nonconjugated polyene is represented by the following formula (5):  [in formula (5), R6 to R13, which are the same or different, each represents a hydrogen atom, a halogen atom, a hydrocarbon group having 1 to 10 carbon atoms, a halogenated hydrocarbon group, an organo-silicon group or a halogenated silicon group, and m and n are an integer of 1 to 3.] The method for producing a cyclic olefinic addition polymer according to any one of claims 2 to 5, in which the cyclic nonconjugated polyene is cyclooctadiene or a substituted cyclooctadiene. The method for producing a cyclic olefinic addition polymer according to any one of claims 1 to 8, in which the non-coordinate or weakly coordinate anion constituting the above-mentioned component (i) is one selected from SbF6-, PF6-, BF4-, CF3SO3- and CF3COO-, and (ii) the above-mentioned Lewis acid compound is one selected from boron trifluoride, aluminum trifluoride, titanium tetrachloride, antimony pentafluoride, tris(pentafluorophenyl)boron and tris(3,5-bistrifluoromethylphenyl)boron. The method for producing a cyclic olefinic addition polymer according to any one of claims 1 to 9, in which (i) the transition metal compound represented by the above-mentioned formula (1) is a strong Brensted acid-modified compound of a compound selected from a β-diketonate compound of a groups 8 to 10 transition metal in the periodic table and a carboxylic acid salt of a groups 8 to 10 transition metal in the periodic table, the carboxylic acid having a linear or branched alkyl group having 1 to 12 carbon atoms. The method for producing a cyclic olefinic addition polymer according to any one of claims 1 to 10, in which (i) the above-mentioned transition metal compound is a nickel compound. The method for producing a cyclic olefinic addition polymer according to any one of claims 1 to 11, in which (iii) the above-mentioned alkyl aluminoxane is used in an amount raging from 1 to 50 times as much as a transition metal atom constituting component (i) in terms of an aluminum atom. The method for producing a cyclic olefinic addition polymer according to any one of claims 1 to 12, in which (iii) the alkyl aluminoxane is methyl aluminoxane. <seperator>EP-1434007-A2<id_sep>subgroupF23R3slash04subgroup groupF23R3slash00group subgroupF23R3slash14subgroup subgroupF23R3slash34subgroup classF23class sectionFsection subclassF23Rsubclass subgroupF23R3slash54subgroup subgroupF23R3slash60subgroup subgroupF23R3slash28subgroup Gas turbine can annular combustor A gas turbine engine (120) includes a cylindrical basket (146) having an axis (14) and a single main burner assembly (12) disposed within the basket. A burner insert (34) is disposed in an annular space between the burner assembly and the basket. The insert includes a face perpendicular to the axis of the basket. A plurality of passageways (114) are formed in the basket, positioned proximate to and downstream of the burner insert for allowing passage of a portion of an oxidizer flow (42) into a combustion chamber (30). A fluid flow path (38), defined between a combustion chamber liner portion (32) of the basket and a casing (40) spaced radially outward from the combustion liner portion, discharges a fluid into a flow reversal region (118) proximate an inlet (20) of the burner assembly. A fuel outlet (44) is disposed in the flow reversal region.  This application claims the benefit of United States Provisional Application 60/436,228 filed December 23, 2002. This invention relates to the field of gas turbine engines, and more particularly, to a can combustor for use in a gas turbine engine. Gas turbine engines are known to include a compressor for compressing air; a combustor for producing a hot gas by burning fuel in the presence of the compressed air produced by the compressor, and a turbine for expanding the hot gas to extract shaft power. The combustion process in many older gas turbine engines is dominated by diffusion flames burning at or near stoichiometric conditions with flame temperatures exceeding 3,000 °F. Such combustion will produce a high level of oxides of nitrogen (NOx). Current emissions regulations have greatly reduced the allowable levels of NOx emissions, requiring improvements in combustors to reduce undesirable NOx production. Gas turbine engines using annular combustion systems typically include a plurality of individual burners disposed in a ring about an axial centerline for providing a mixture of fuel and air to an annular combustion chamber disposed upstream of the annular turbine inlet vanes. The combustion process of the several burners will interact in the combustion chamber since all burners discharge the combustible mixture to the single annulus. Consequently, combustion processes in one burner may affect the combustion processes in the other burners. Other gas turbines use can-annular combustors wherein individual burner cans feed hot combustion gas into respective individual portions of the arc of the turbine inlet vanes. Each can includes a plurality of main burners disposed in a ring around a central pilot burner, as illustrated in United States patent 6,082,111. Can annular combustors are generally more expensive to fabricate as a result of the use of multiple burners within each of the multiple combustor cans which may include cross flame tubes connecting combustor baskets. The demand to decrease exhaust emissions continues, thus improved techniques for economically controlling the combustion conditions of a gas turbine engine are needed. The invention will be more apparent from the following description in view of the drawings that show: FIG. 1 illustrates a cross section of an improved gas turbine engine featuring a combustor 10 having only one main burner 12. FIG. 2 is a cut-away perspective view of the can annular combustor 10 of FIG. 1. Generally, the combustor 10 includes a combustor basket 146, the single main burner 12 disposed within the basket 146, and a casing 40 surrounding and spaced away from the basket 146. The basket 146 may further include a downstream combustion chamber liner 32 and an upstream liner support 72. In conventional can annular gas turbine engine configurations, each combustor typically includes a plurality of main burners disposed in a ring around a pilot burner. However, such can annular combustors are generally more complex and expensive to fabricate and maintain because of the use of multiple burners within each of the combustors. The inventors of the present invention have innovatively recognized that a single main burner 12, instead of a plurality of burners, can reduce the complexity and expense of fabricating a can annular combustor, while additionally providing reduced NOx emissions. A combustor comprising:  The combustor of claim 1, wherein the burner insert further comprises an outside diameter smaller than an inside diameter of the basket so that a gap is formed along at least a portion of a circumference of the bumer insert between the burner insert and the basket. The combustor of claim 1, further comprising an insert support for supporting the burner insert, the insert support disposed upstream of the burner insert and protected from exposure to hot combustion products by the burner insert. A combustor comprising:  The combustor of claim 4, further comprising:  The combustor of claim 5, further comprising a liner support, attached to the casing, for attaching a combustor liner to the liner support with removable fasteners. The combustor of claim 6, wherein the liner support further comprises a plurality of standoff tabs to space the bumer insert away from a downstream end of the liner support, the standoff tabs spaced apart and extending away from the downstream end of the liner support for allowing air to flow around a downstream end of the liner support between the standoff tabs. The combustor of claim 4, further comprising an insert support for supporting the burner insert, the insert support disposed on a side of the burner insert opposed to the combustion chamber and protected from exposure to hot combustion products by the burner insert. The combustor of claim 8, further comprising a passage formed through the insert support for conveying a fluid to cool the burner insert. The combustor of claim 9, wherein the insert support further comprises an impingement plate defining a plenum for receiving the fluid and further comprising a plurality of holes for directing the fluid to impinge on a face of the bumer insert opposed the combustion chamber. The combustor of claim 4, wherein the burner insert further comprises an outside diameter smaller than an inside diameter of the basket so that an annular gap is formed at least along a portion of a circumference of the burner insert between the burner insert and the basket for allowing a fluid to flow into a downstream combustion chamber. The combustor of claim 4, wherein the basket further comprises a plurality of passageways circumferentially positioned proximate to and downstream of the burner insert for allowing air to flow into the combustion chamber proximate the burner insert. A gas turbine combustor comprising:  The burner insert assembly of claim 13, wherein the burner insert is removably attached to the insert support. The burner insert assembly of claim 13, the burner insert further comprising a substantially J-shaped cross section wherein a hooked portion of the J-shaped cross section forms a circumferential mounting lip around an inside diameter of the burner insert. The burner insert assembly of claim 15, the burner support further comprising a recess circumferentially formed around an inside diameter of the burner support for receiving the circumferential mounting lip of the burner insert. The burner insert assembly of claim 13, further comprising a passage formed through the insert support for conveying a fluid flow from an upstream face of the insert support to a downstream face of the insert support. The burner insert assembly of claim 17 further comprising an impingement plate attached to the downstream face of the burner support, the impingement plate defining a plenum for receiving the fluid flow and further comprising a plurality of holes for directing the fluid flow to impinge on an upstream face of the burner insert. The bumer insert assembly of claim 13, further comprising a ring seal for aligning and sealing the burner insert assembly against the burner assembly. A combustor comprising:  <seperator>EP-1637524-A1<id_sep>subclassC07Dsubclass classC07class subgroupC07D401slash12subgroup sectionGsection groupC07D401slash00group classG01class sectionCsection groupC07D257slash00group subgroupG01N24slash08subgroup subclassG01Nsubclass groupG01N24slash00group subgroupC07D257slash02subgroup 10-substituted 1-, 4, 7,-tris (carboxymethyl)-1,4,7,10-tetraazacyclo-dodecane derivative for use as contrast agents The present invention relates to smart chelating agents suitable for forming stable complexes with lanthanides and/or transition metals. The present invention relates to smart chelating agents suitable for forming stable complexes with lanthanides and/or transition metals. Chelating agents are polydentate ligands which bind with metal ions to form coordination compounds. Such metal ligand complexes are of great practical importance and find numerous applications in the field of medicine. For example, chelating agents are suitable as chemical decontamination and decorporation agents, MRI contrast agents, for radiopharmaceutical applications, luminescent probes and Often, metals or metal ions used in medical applications are toxic and thus the major concern with the use of metal chelates The biological distribution of agents is important. Preferably contrast agents localize in one tissue type in preference to other tissues in order to highlight the pathology of the target tissue. Further, it is desirable, to have chelating agents at one's disposal, the properties of which can be altered. Thus, for example, the effect of temperature, pH, O Therefore functionalized ligands have been developed having responsive groups which act as reporter moieties or which can be used to attach covalently to biological molecules constituting targeted agents. Via a responsive group it is possible to regulate the properties of the resulting coordination compounds as a function of particular chemical variables. For example, Silvio et al., As is described in the literature (Aime et al., There is thus an ongoing need for new compounds with improved performances. In particular, there is a need for chelating agents capable of forming stable complexes with lanthanides and transition metals. The macrocyclic ligand 1,4,7,10-tetraazacyclododecane (DOTA) is a preferred structure to base a new class of chelating agents. The synthetic versatility of the macrocyclic skeleton provides an ideal candidate for the synthesis of smart chelating agents. The present invention provides novel chelating agents based on 1,4,7,10-tetraazacyclododecane, bearing a responsive group on the tenth position of the ring. The present invention provides novel chelating agents of Formula I The functional group Y is preferably CO According to the invention, the DOTA macrocycle may optionally be substituted on one or more of the carbon ring positions as defined below, e.g. with halo, C In the context of the present invention, Q is referred to as a responsive group. The responsive group is capable of binding to metal ions. The binding properties of Q, however, depend on the environmental conditions as explained below. Preferably Q comprises a linking group and a functional group X which is defined as Y above. According to the invention, Q is not hydrolyzable unter physiological conditions and preferably does not contain a carboxamido group. Thus, the properties of the responsive group are preserved in the presence and absence of target molecules/ions, e.g. enzymes, and the ability to act as a responsive agent is maintained. According to the present invention the binding properties of Q depend on environmental conditions, particularly temperature, pH, the presence of enzymes, the presence of cations (e.g. Ca The functional group X, preferably PO Preferably, the linking group contains one or more heteroatoms selected from the group of N, O, P and S, wherein the heteroatom may serve as electron donating moiety such that the linking group contributes to the binding to metal atoms and/or ions. Particularly suitable are electron rich heteroatoms having free electron pairs and/or ionizable groups. A chelating agent of formula (I)  The chelating agent according to claim 1  wherein the chelating capability of Q depends on environmental conditions of pH, enzymes, polyaminoacids and/or cations. The chelating agent according to claim 1 or 2  wherein Q comprises a linking group and an acidic group X. The chelating agent according to any of claims 1 to 3  wherein  Q contains one or more heteroatoms selected from N, O, P and S. The chelating agent according to any of claims 1 to 4  wherein  Q contains a cyclic, e.g. mono or oligocyclic group. The chelating agent according to claim 5  wherein  the cyclic group is a heterocyclic, particularly heteroaryl group. The chelating agent according to any of claims 1 to 6  wherein  Q contains at least one C=C and/or C=N double bond. The chelating agent according to any of claims 1 to 7  wherein  Q contains an electron donating moiety. The chelating agent according to any of claims 1 to 8  wherein  Q is represented by formula (II)            -(CR The chelating agent according to claim 9  wherein  Z is C A metal chelate comprising a chelating agent according to any of the previous claims and a metal atom or ion. The metal chelate according to claim 11,  wherein  the metal is selected from the group consisting of transition metals, lanthanides and actinides. The metal chelate according to claim 11 or 12,  wherein  the metal is gadolinium. The metal chelate according to any of claims 11 to 13,  wherein  Q participates in the coordination to the metal. The metal chelate according to claim 14,  wherein  the binding of Q to the metal can be altered by the presence or absence of cations, enzymes and/or polyamido acids and/or by varying the pH. A conjugate comprising a chelating agent according to any one of claims 1 to 10 or a metal chelate according to any of claims 11 to 15 and a biomolecule. A pharmaceutical composition comprising as an active ingredient a chelating agent according to any of claims 1 to 10 or a metal chelate according to any of claims 11 to 15 or a conjugate according to claim 16, optionally together with pharmaceutically acceptable carriers, diluents and/or adjuvants. The composition according to claim 17, for therapeutic or diagnostic applications. The composition according to claim 18, for targeting predetermined sites in an organism. The composition according to any of claims 17 to 19, for use as a contrast agent, particularly in MRI, gamma or positron emission tomography, optical or fluorescence microscopy. Use of a chelating agent according to any of claims 1 to 10 or a metal chelate according to any of claims 11 to 15 or a conjugate according to claim 16 for the manufacture of a contrast agent. The use according to claim 21, wherein the relaxivity of the contrast agent is dependent on the presence and/or amount of cations. The use according to any of claims 21 to 22, wherein the relaxivity of the contrast agent is dependent on the pH. <seperator>EP-1504852-A2<id_sep>subgroupB23B45slash16subgroup sectionBsection classB25class subclassB25Fsubclass subclassB25Dsubclass subclassB23Bsubclass subgroupB25D17slash24subgroup groupB23B45slash00group classB23class groupB25F5slash00group groupB25D17slash00group Impact drill An impact drill minimizing transmission of vibration to a handle gripped by a user's hand. A spindle (2) extends through a main frame (1) and is movable in its axial direction and rotatable about its axis. A first ratchet (4) is rotatable and axially movable together with the spindle (2). A second ratchet (5) is axially movable but unrotatable. The first ratchet (4) has a first serrated surface and the second ratchet (5) has a second serrated surface in confrontation with the first serrated surface. In an impact drilling mode, the first serrated surfaces is brought into abutment with the second serrated surface so that the spindle is reciprocally moved in the axial direction. A first spring (120) is interposed between the main frame (1) and the second ratchet (5) to urge the second ratchet (5) toward the first ratchet (4). A second spring (121) is interposed between the main frame and the second ratchet (5) to urge the second ratchet (5) away from the first ratchet (4). In the impact drilling mode, the second ratchet (5) is always out of contact from the main frame (1) and is floatingly maintained within the main frame (1).  BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to an impact drill for boring a hole in a concrete, mortar and tiles, and more particularly, to such impact drill providing a drilling mode in which a boring is performed by rotating a drill bit and a impact drilling mode in which boring is performed by rotating and impacting or vibrating the drill bit. A conventional impact drill of this type is shown in Figs. 15 through 18. A main frame 401 includes a gear cover 417, an inner cover 418, an outer cover 419, a housing 407, and a handle portion 406 connected thereto, those defining an outer configuration of the drill and housing therein various components at given positions. A spindle 402 extends through the gear cover 417, and a drill chuck 3 is attached to a front end of the spindle 402. The spindle 402 has an intermediate portion provided with a rotatable ratchet 404 rotatable together with the rotation of the spindle 402 and movable together with an axial displacement of the spindle 402. The rotatable ratchet 404 has one side 404a formed with a serration or alternating projections and recesses. A fixed ratchet 405 is disposed in confrontation with the rotatable ratchet 404, and has a side 405a formed with a serration or alternating projections and recesses. The fixed ratchet 405 has a hollow cylindrical shape and is fixed at a position regardless of the rotation and axial displacement of the spindle 402. Meanwhile, a motor 408 is disposed within the housing 407. The rotational driving force of the motor 408 is transmitted through a rotary shaft 409 to a gear 410. The gear 410 is force-fitted into a pinion 411, so the aforementioned rotational driving force is transferred to the pinion 411. The pinion 411 has two pinions 411a and 411b those having numbers of teeth different from each other and which are meshedly engaged with a low speed gear 412 and a high speed gear 413, respectively. When the pinion 411 rotates, the gears 412 and 413 rotate as well. These gears 412 and 413 are formed with concave portions. A clutch disc 414 is disposed over and engages the spindle 402, and is slidable in an axial direction thereof. As shown in Fig. 1, when the clutch disc 414 is slidingly moved and pressed into the concave portion of the low speed gear 412, the rotation of the pinion 411 is transferred to the spindle 402 through the low speed gear 412 and the clutch disc 414. On the other hand, if the clutch disc 414 slides rightward from the position in Fig. 15, and when inserted into the concave portion of the high speed gear 413, the rotation of the pinion 411 is transferred to the spindle 402 through the high speed gear 413 and the clutch disc 414. Consequently, the spindle 402 can be given low-speed rotation or high-speed rotation based on the movement of the clutch disc 414. A change lever 415 is provided for changing operation mode of the impact drill between a drilling mode and an impact drilling mode. A change shaft 416 is force-fitted into the change lever 415. By rotating the change lever 415 about its rotation axis, the change shaft 416 is rotated about its axis along with the change lever 415. As shown in Figs. 16 through 18, the change shaft 416 is formed with a notch 416a. The impact drill operates in drilling mode when the notch 416a is in the position in Fig. 16, and operates in impact drilling mode when the notch 416a is in the position in Fig. 17. An impact drill for boring a workpiece comprising:  The impact drill as claimed in claim 1, wherein the second ratchet has a front side and a rear side, and    wherein the first spring is interposed between the main frame and the rear side for urging the second ratchet toward the first ratchet, the first spring having a spring constant capable of preventing the second ratchet and the spindle from abutting against the main frame when a force ranging from 15 to 25kg is applied to the main frame for boring the workpiece. The impact drill as claimed in claim 2, wherein the second spring is interposed between the main frame and the front side when no force is applied to the spindle from the workpiece for urging the second ratchet in a direction away from the first ratchet, whereby the second ratchet is resiliently held by the main frame through the first spring and the second spring. The impact drill as claimed in claim 3, wherein the second spring has one end seated on the main frame and another end separated from the main frame and only associated with the second ratchet when no force is applied to the spindle from the workpiece. The impact drill as claimed in claim 3, wherein the second spring has one end seated on the main frame and another end seated on the main frame and associated with the second ratchet when no force is applied to the spindle from the workpiece. The impact drill as claimed in claim 3, wherein the second spring has one end seated on the main frame and another end seated on the main frame for permitting the second spring to disengage from the second ratchet when a force ranging from 15 to 25 kg is applied to the main frame, whereby the second ratchet is only biased by the first spring. The impact drill as claimed in claim 1, wherein f/fc is not less than 2, in which f represents a vibration frequency of the second ratchet, and fc represents a natural frequency determined by components including the main frame and excluding the second ratchet and by the spring constant of the first spring. The impact drill as claimed in claim 7, wherein f/fc is not less than 3. The impact drill as claimed in claim 3, further comprising a spindle spring interposed between the main frame and the spindle for normally urging the spindle in a direction to protrude out of the main frame An impact drill for boring a workpiece comprising:  The impact drill as claimed in claim 10, wherein the second ratchet has a front side and a rear side, and the impact drill further comprising a first spring interposed between the main frame and the rear side for biasing the second ratchet in a first axial direction. The impact drill as claimed in claim 11, further comprising a second spring biasing the second ratchet in a second axial direction opposite to the first axial direction. The impact drill as claimed in claim 12, wherein the first spring provides a spring constant capable of preventing the second ratchet and the spindle from abutting against the main frame when a force ranging from 15 to 25kg is applied to the main frame for boring the workpiece. The impact drill as claimed in claim 12, wherein the second spring is interposed between the main frame and the front side. The impact drill as claimed in claim 14, wherein the second spring is interposed between the main frame and the front side when no force is applied to the spindle from the workpiece for urging the second ratchet in a direction away from the first ratchet, whereby the second ratchet is resiliently held by the main frame through the first spring and the second spring. The impact drill as claimed in claim 12, further comprising a spindle spring interposed between the main frame and the spindle for normally urging the spindle in a direction to protrude out of the main frame. <seperator>EP-1524107-A1<id_sep>sectionBsection subgroupB32B7slash12subgroup subgroupB65D77slash20subgroup subclassB65Dsubclass classB65class subgroupB32B27slash32subgroup subclassB32Bsubclass subgroupB65D77slash10subgroup classB32class Laminated packaging sheet The present invention relates to a laminated packaging sheet (14 ; 114) of the type comprising a support film (24 ; 124) associated to a welding film (26 ; 126) with a permanent adhesive layer (28 ; 128) interposed between the support film (24 ; 124) and the welding film (26 ; 126), at least in predetermined zones, characterized in that said welding film (26 ; 126) is a polyolefin-based film, comprising a high-density polyethylene HDPE. The present invention relates to a laminated packaging sheet of the type comprising a support film associated to a welding film, with a permanent adhesive layer interposed between the support film and the welding film, at least in predetermined marked zones. It also relates to a packaging comprising a film of this type, e.g. a sachet or a container, sealed by a film of this type. Packagings comprising a packaging film allowing easy opening and reclosing are currently used, for example, to package food products. The structure of a film of this type is described, in particular, in French patent applications FR 95 14117 and FR 00 04155. In FR 95 14117, the laminated film used to allow opening and reclosing of the packaging comprises two polymer films, between which a permanent adhesive layer is interposed. One of the films, the "welding film", is intended to be directed towards the inside of the packaging. It is suitable for being welded on the peripheral edge of a container. The other film, the "support film", is intended to form the outer face of the packaging. The welding film consists of a single layer of a same polymer or of a mixture of polymers. It should be noted that when a packaging of this type is used for packaging foodstuffs, the taste and smell of these foodstuffs may be altered. In particular, the smell and taste of the products may be unpleasant for the user, the user detecting that the foodstuffs preserved in the packaging have a "plastic"- or "petroleum"- like smell or taste. To avoid this problem, it has been proposed in French application FR 00 0415, to integrate in the welding film means which form a barrier to gases and molecular migration, namely an inner layer made of specific polymer integrated in said welding film, between two layers generally made of polyethylene, especially low density polyethylene LDPE, linear low density polyethylene LLDPE, or medium density polyethylene MDPE. An object of the invention is to provide a more simple solution to avoid the deterioration in taste and smell of foodstuffs preserved in packagings using at least one packaging film allowing reclosure. For this purpose, the subject of the invention is a laminated packaging sheet of the aforementioned type, characterized in that its welding film is a polyolefin-based film, comprising a high density polyethylene HDPE. A further subject of the invention is a packaging device, such as a container or a sachet, comprising an external wall defining an internal cavity with a passage to access to said internal cavity, characterized in that said passage is sealed with a laminated packaging sheet as defined above, said sheet being welded to said external wall on the periphery of said passage, the sheet being contacted with the external wall on the welding film, in an area of the sheet having permanent adhesive. Contrary to polyethylene without HDPE as contemplated in FR 00 0415, HDPE provides an odor barrier effect, especially due to a lower permeability to aroma and odors. Laminated packaging sheet (14 ; 114) of the type comprising a support film (24 ; 124) associated to a welding film (26 ; 126) with a permanent adhesive layer (28 ; 128) interposed between the support film (24 ; 124) and the welding film (26 ; 126), at least in predetermined zones, characterized in that said welding film (26 ; 126) is a polyolefin-based film, comprising a high-density polyethylene HDPE. Laminated packaging sheet (14) according to claim 1, characterized in that the welding film (26) is a monolayer film comprising a blend of polyolefinic polymers including HDPE. Laminated packaging sheet (14) according to claim 2, characterized in that the monolayer welding film (26) comprises a blend of HDPE with at least one polyolefinic polymer selected from the group consisting of low-density polyethylene LDPE, linear low-density polyethylene LLDPE, medium-density polyethylene MDPE, polypropylene PP and ethylene-vinylacetate copolymer EVA. Laminated packaging sheet (14) according to claim 2 or 3, characterized in that the monolayer welding film (26) comprises from 10% to 90% by weight, and preferably from 40% to 60% by weight, of HDPE, on the basis of the total weight of the polyolefinic polymer present in said monolayer sealing film. Laminated packaging sheet (14) according to claim 2 to 4, characterized in that the welding film (26) has a thickness of between 5 and 60 microns, preferably of between 20 and 40 microns. Laminated packaging sheet (114) according to claim 1, characterized in that the welding film (126) comprises a welding layer (136) and an odor barrier layer (137), wherein the odor barrier layer (137) is located between the permanent adhesive layer (128) and the sealing layer (136), and wherein said odor barrier layer (137) is a polyolefin-based layer comprising a high density polyethylene HDPE. Laminated packaging sheet (114) according to claim 6, characterized in that the odor barrier layer (137) comprises from 10% to 100% by weight of HDPE, on the basis of the total weight of the polyolefinic polymer present in said odor barrier layer. Laminated packaging sheet (114) according to claim 6 or 7, characterized in that the odor barrier layer (137) has a thickness of between 2 and 15 microns, typically of about 3 microns. Laminated packaging sheet (114) according to any one of claims 6 to 8, characterized in that the welding film (126) is obtained by co-extrusion. Laminated packaging sheet (14 ; 114) according to anyone of claims 1 to 9, characterized in that it is obtained :  Packaging device (10 ; 110), such as a container or a sachet, comprising an external wall (16 ; 116) defining an internal cavity (20 ; 120) with a passage (15 ; 115) to access to said internal cavity, characterized in that said passage is sealed with a laminated packaging sheet (14 ; 114) according to any one of preceding claims, said sheet being welded to said external wall (16 ; 116) on the periphery of said, passage (15 ; 115), the sheet being contacted with the external wall on the welding film (26), in an area of the sheet having permanent adhesive (18 ; 128). Amended claims in accordance with Rule 86(2) EPC. 1. In a laminated packaging sheet (14 ; 114) of the type comprising a support film (24 ; 124) associated to a welding film (26 ; 126) with a permanent adhesive layer (28 ; 128) interposed between the support film (24 ; 124) and the welding film (26 ; 126), at least in predetermined zones, the use of a polyolefin-based film, comprising a high-density polyethylene HDPE, as the welding film (26 ; 126) for providing an odor barrier effect. 2. A laminated packaging sheet (14) of the type comprising a support film (24) associated to a welding film (26) with a permanent adhesive layer (28) interposed between the support film (24) and the welding film (26), at least in predetermined zones, characterized in that the welding film (26) is a monolayer film comprising a blend of HDPE with at least one polyolefinic polymer selected from the group consisting of low-density polyethylene LDPE, linear low-density polyethylene LLDPE, medium-density polyethylene MDPE, polypropylene PP and ethylene-vinylacetate copolymer EVA. 3. Laminated packaging sheet (14) according to claim 2, characterized in that the monolayer welding film (26) comprises from 10% to 90% by weight of HDPE, on the basis of the total weight of the polyolefinic polymer present in said monolayer sealing film. 4. Laminated packaging sheet (14) according to claim 2, characterized in that the monolayer welding film (26) comprises from 40% to 60% by weight of HDPE, on the basis of the total weight of the polyolefinic polymer present in said monolayer sealing film. 5. Laminated packaging sheet (14) according to claim 2 to 4, characterized in that the welding film (26) has a thickness of between 5 and 60 microns, preferably of between 20 and 40 microns. 6. A laminated packaging sheet (114) of the type comprising a support film (124) associated to a welding film (126) with a permanent adhesive layer (128) interposed between the support film (124) and the welding film (126), at least in predetermined zones, characterized in that the welding film (126) comprises a welding layer (136) and an odor barrier layer (137), wherein the odor barrier layer (137) is located between the permanent adhesive layer (128) and the sealing layer (136), and wherein said odor barrier layer (137) is a polyolefin-based layer comprising a high density polyethylene HOPE, wherein the sheet does not comprise an odor barrier layer comprising a copolymer of ethylene and vinyl alcohol. 7. Laminated packaging sheet (114) according to claim 6, characterized in that the odor barrier layer (137) comprises from 10% to 100% by weight of HOPE, on the basis of the total weight of the polyolefinic polymer present in said odor barrier layer. 8. Laminated packaging sheet (114) according to claim 6 or 7, characterized in that the odor barrier layer (137) has a thickness of between 2 and 15 microns, typically of about 3 microns. 9. Laminated packaging sheet (114) according to any one of claims 6 to 8, characterized in that the welding film (126) is obtained by co-extrusion. 10. Laminated packaging sheet (14; 114) according to anyone of claims 2 to 9, characterized in that it is obtained :  11. Packaging device (10 ; 110), such as a container or a sachet, comprising an external wall (16 ; 116) defining an internal cavity (20 ; 120) with a passage (15; 115) to access to said internal cavity, characterized in that said passage is sealed with a laminated packaging sheet (14 ; 114) according to any of claims 2 to 10, said sheet being welded to said external wall (16; 116) on the periphery of said passage (15 ; 115), the sheet being contacted with the external wall on the welding film (26), in an area of the sheet having permanent adhesive (18 ; 128). <seperator>EP-1331342-A2<id_sep>sectionEsection subgroupE05D3slash06subgroup subclassE05Fsubclass groupE05F5slash00group subclassE05Dsubclass subgroupE05F1slash12subgroup subgroupE05F5slash02subgroup classE05class groupE05D3slash00group groupE05F1slash00group Cam-assisted lid hinge Disclosed is a hinge (10) for a vehicle lid, the hinge comprising a main biasing means operable to urge the hinge into an open position, and a mechanism (40, 24, 48, 22, 32, 38) for assisting the initial opening of the hinge from a closed position, the mechanism comprising a rotary cam (22) engageable with another portion (38) of the hinge to provide said assistance, and further biasing means (24) which acts on the cam to rotate it relative to said other portion of the hinge. Also disclosed is a lifting aid comprising a main biasing means for attachment between a lid and a body, which lid is pivotally moveable towards and away from the body, the main biasing means being operable to urge the lid from a closed position relative to the body to an open position, the lifting aid further comprising cam means attachable to the body for relative rotation thereto and further biasing means for attachment between the body and the cam means and operable to rotate the cam means relative to the body and lid, the cam means being operable to assist the initial opening of the lid.  Field of the Invention This invention relates to cam-assisted vehicle lid hinges, in particular cam-assisted four-link vehicle lid hinges for car boot lids. Background to the Invention It is increasingly common in the automotive industry to attach boot lids to car bodies using a pair of four-link hinges, each hinge comprising a body link and a lid link and the body and lid links being joined by long and short links. When the boot lid is closed the hinges collapse into the shallow gutters on each side of the boot between the boot lid and the external surface of the car body. Such four-link hinges have the advantage, over conventional swan-neck hinges, that they do not intrude into the boot space when the boot lid is closed. Assistance in opening the boot lid is usually provided by a gas strut acting on each hinge, and since it is undesirable for the struts to intrude into the boot space, it is necessary for them also to be located in the shallow gutters. However, the almost horizontal attitude of the struts when the lid is closed results in the struts providing a poor mechanical advantage, and therefore little assistance during the initial opening of the lid. Various mechanisms have been proposed to assist the initial opening of such hinges, but to the best knowledge of the applicant, no mechanism to date has been operable to open the hinge to a greater extent than approximately 20° of rotation of the lid link relative to a closed position. It is believed that the minimum extent to which the hinge must be opened for the gas strut to be operable to open the hinge fully is approximately 35° of rotation of the lid link relative to the closed position. Summary of the Invention According to the invention there is provided a hinge for a vehicle lid, the hinge comprising a main biasing means, for example a gas strut, operable to urge the hinge into an open position, and a mechanism for assisting the initial opening of the hinge from a closed position, the mechanism comprising a rotary cam engageable with another portion of the hinge to provide said assistance, and further biasing means which acts on the cam to rotate it relative to said other portion of the hinge. Thus the invention provides a hinge for a vehicle lid having a mechanism for assisting the initial opening of the hinge that is operable to open the hinge to the minimum extent necessary to ensure that the main biasing means is operable to open the hinge to its full extent. Preferably the cam is pivotally attached to the hinge. Preferably the hinge is a four-link hinge. Preferably the hinge comprises a body link for attaching to a vehicle body, a lid link for attaching to a vehicle lid, short and long links joining the body and lid links, and the main biasing means comprises a gas strut attached between the body and lid links. Preferably the cam is pivotally attached to the long link and engageable with the lid link. A hinge for a vehicle lid, the hinge comprising a main biasing means operable to urge the hinge into an open position, and a mechanism for assisting the initial opening of the hinge from a closed position, the mechanism comprising a rotary cam engageable with another portion of the hinge to provide said assistance, and further biasing means which acts on the cam to rotate it relative to said other portion of the hinge, wherein a location of a region of attachment of the further biasing means to the cam, and a location of a region of engagement of the cam with the other portion of the hinge, relative to a centre of rotation of the cam, is such that a force applied by the cam to the other portion of the hinge is greater than a force applied to the cam by the further biasing means. A hinge according to claim 1, wherein the cam is pivotally attached to the hinge. A hinge according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the hinge is a four-link hinge. A hinge according to claim 3, comprising a body link for attaching to a vehicle body, a lid link for attaching to a vehicle lid, short and long links joining the body and lid links, and wherein the main biasing means comprises a gas strut attached between the body and lid links. A hinge according to claim 4, wherein the cam is pivotally attached to the long link and engagable with the lid link. A hinge according to claim 4 or 5, wherein the lid link includes a cam follower for engagement with the cam. A hinge according to claim 6, wherein the cam engages with the cam follower when the hinge is in the closed position and during the initial opening of the hinge from the closed position. A hinge according to claim 7, wherein the further biasing means comprises a mechanical spring. A hinge according to claim 8, wherein the further biasing means comprises a helical tension spring. A hinge according to any of claims 4 to 9, wherein the further biasing means is attached between the cam and the long link. A hinge according to claim 10, wherein the further biasing means is so attached to the long link and cam as to be disposed generally along the long link when the hinge is in the closed position. A hinge according to any of claims 4 to 11, wherein the lid link is adapted for attachment to a boot lid of a car, and the body link is adapted for attachment to the body of a car. A vehicle having a body and lid attached to the body by a hinge in accordance with any preceding claim. A lifting aid comprising a main biasing means for attachment between a lid and a body, which lid is pivotally moveable towards and away from the body, the main biasing means being operable to urge the lid from a closed position relative to the body to an open position, the lifting aid further comprising cam means attachable to the body for rotation relative thereto and further biasing means for attachment between the body and the cam means and operable to rotate the cam means relative to the body and lid, the cam means being operable to assist the initial opening of the lid, wherein a location of a region of attachment of the further biasing means to the cam means and a location of a region of engagement of the cam means with the lid, relative to a centre of rotation of the cam, is such that a force applied by the cam means to the lid is greater than a force applied to the cam means by the further biasing means. A lifting aid or hinge substantially as hereinbefore described and with reference to the accompanying drawings. <seperator>EP-1249976-A2<id_sep>classH04class subclassH04Wsubclass sectionHsection groupH04W72slash00group subgroupH04L1slash18subgroup groupH04L1slash00group subgroupH04W28slash02subgroup subgroupH04W28slash06subgroup subgroupH04L12slash66subgroup subgroupH04W28slash04subgroup subgroupH04W72slash12subgroup subgroupH04W28slash14subgroup subgroupH04L12slash56subgroup subclassH04Lsubclass subgroupH04L1slash16subgroup Packet transmission method and system A packet transmission method for transmitting packets classified according to a quality of service (QoS) requirement from a transmitting node to a receiving node is provided. In the transmitting node, the steps of selecting sequentially a QoS class; dividing a queued packet to be transmitted belonging to the selected class into a plurality of predetermined data units, and transmitting one of the obtained predetermined data units; and applying a transmitter-side retransmission control process to the data unit to be transmitted when the selected class is a QoS class specified for data type packets are provided. In the receiving node, the steps of: receiving sequentially the data units transmitted from the transmitting node; assembling a plurality of received data units to decompress the original packet for each QoS class; and applying a receiver-side retransmission control process to the received data units to be assembled when the received data unit belongs to one of the QoS classes specified for the data type packets are provided.  BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The present invention generally relates to a packet transmission method and system, more particularly to the packet transmission method and system for dividing a normal transmission packet into a plurality of data units each having a shorter data length, and scheduling transmission order of those data units. Today, on the Internet, services have been provided that can support various quality of service (QoS). QoS may be defined by allowable packet loss, allowable delay time, and the like. For example, between transmission of E-mail and transmission of audio or video streaming, there is a big difference in the required QoS. In data type transmission such as for E-mail or Web pages, it may be more important to ensure an arrival of all the information (reliability or low bit error) than an arrival with no or minimal delay. That is, the data type transmission may allow some delay if necessary for the reliability. While, in real-time type transmission such as for audio or video streaming, minimal delay is more important because the real-time type data can be practically unusable if the delay is too large. Some architectures offer different QoS such as Intserv (Integrated Service) and Diffserv (Differentiated Service). The Intserv guarantees throughput for every QoS class, which is a so-called bandwidth-guaranteed type service, and utilizes RSVP (Resource Reservation Protocol). The Diffserv sets up a priority for every packet, based on user (IP address) or contents of transmitted information. A conventional packet transmission method and system is described below with reference to FIG.1. FIG.1 schematically shows the configuration of the conventional packet transmitting apparatus. In Fig.1, a classifying part 101 processes packets (IP packets) to be transmitted to classify them on the basis of QoS requirement. It is assumed as an example that roughly there are some service classes classified as real-time type and some service classes classified as data type. Alternatively, for classifying, a different service class is assigned to each flow if this node is an RSVP router, while service classes are allocated based on DSCP (Diffserv Codepoint) in IP header if the node is a Diffserv router. Each classified transmission packet is managed in an IP datagram queue, using various buffer management techniques for each queue. As an example, some packets are dropped according to a predetermined discard policy such as RED or RIO. The IP datagram queues are provided for each service class in an IP queue 102. A transmission order for the packets to be transmitted buffered in each queue is scheduled by a scheduling part 103 according to a scheduling technique such as PQ (Priority Queuing), WFQ (Weighted Fair Queuing), or CBQ (Class-based Queuing). The scheduling may be based on allocated bands in case of the above-mentioned Intserv, while it may be based on the priority of each queue in case of the above Diffserv. Anyway, a front packet in each queue is pulled out according to one of the above techniques, and is transferred into a data link layer (the second layer). A packet transmission method for transmitting packets classified according to a quality of service (QoS) requirement from a transmitting node to a receiving node, the packet transmission method characterized by the steps of:  The packet transmission method as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that:  The packet transmission method as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that:  The packet transmission method as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that:  The packet transmission method as claimed in claim 2, characterized in that:  The packet transmission method as claimed in claim 3, characterized in that:  A packet transmission system for transmitting packets classified according to a QoS requirement from a transmitting node to a receiving node, characterized in that,    the transmitting node comprises:  The packet transmission system as claimed in claim 7, characterized in that:  A packet transmission system for transmitting packets classified according to a QoS requirement from a transmitting node to a receiving node, characterized in that,    the transmitting node comprises:  The packet transmission system as claimed in claim 9, characterized in that:  A packet transmission system for transmitting packets classified according to a QoS requirement from a transmitting node to a receiving node, characterized in that,    the transmitting node comprises:  The packet transmission system as claimed in claim 11, characterized in that:  A packet transmitting/receiving apparatus comprising a transmitting part and a receiving part for transmitting and receiving packets classified according to a QoS requirement respectively, characterized in that,    the transmitting part comprises:  The packet transmitting/receiving apparatus as claimed in claim 13, characterized in that:  A packet transmitting/receiving apparatus comprising a transmitting part and a receiving part for transmitting and receiving packets classified according to a QoS requirement respectively, characterized in that,    the transmitting part comprises:  The packet transmitting/receiving apparatus as claimed in claim 15, characterized in that:  A packet transmitting/receiving apparatus comprising a transmitting part and a receiving part for transmitting and receiving packets classified according to a QoS requirement respectively, characterized in that,    the transmitting part comprises:  The packet transmitting/receiving apparatus as claimed in claim 17, characterized in that:  A packet transmitting apparatus for transmitting packets classified according to a QoS requirement, the packet transmitting apparatus characterized by:  The packet transmitting apparatus as claimed in claim 19, characterized in that:  A packet transmitting apparatus for transmitting packets classified according to a QoS requirement, the packet transmitting apparatus characterized by:  The packet transmitting apparatus as claimed in claim 21, characterized in that:  A packet transmitting apparatus for transmitting packets classified according to a QoS requirement, the packet transmitting apparatus characterized by:  The packet transmitting apparatus as claimed in claim 23, characterized in that:  A packet receiving apparatus for receiving packets classified according to a QoS requirement in the form of predetermined data units into which the packets are divided, the packet receiving apparatus characterized by:  A packet receiving apparatus for receiving packets classified according to QoS requirement in the form of predetermined data units into which the packets are processed for header compression and divided, the packet receiving apparatus characterized by:  <seperator>EP-1586921-A1<id_sep>subgroupG02B6slash38subgroup sectionGsection subclassG02Bsubclass classG02class Optical contact unit and optical plug A ferrule holder 110 and a coil spring 120 are comprised in a main body 130 formed in an approximately tube shape. A cable adaptor 140 comprising a front opening part 142 at a large diameter part 141 is inserted from a back opening part 133 into the main body 130 having slits S2 and S3. A first small diameter part 131 of the main body 130 fits with the large diameter part 141 of the cable adaptor 140 and prevents the cable adaptor 140 from translating in the z-axis direction. And the second small diameter part 132 of the main body 130 controls transfer of the ferrule holder 110 in the z-axis direction. At the forward part of the large diameter 141, a taper part which helps to insert the cable adaptor 140 is formed around the circuit of the optical axis. Each slit formed at the back opening part 133 also helps to insert the cable adaptor 140.  Technical Field The present invention relates to an optical plug connecting optical fibers and mechanical structure of its contact. So the optical plug and the optical contact unit of the present invention are useful for a cable connector (coupler) comprising optical fibers. Background Art Conventionally, as mechanical structure of a contact which connects optical fibers, the structure shown in a patent document 1, i.e., Japanese Patent Application Laid-open No. 2001-74977, is common and well-known. As disclosed in the patent document 1, problems persist in a conventional method for binding a male screw formed at a cable adaptor and female screw formed at a tube shape body by screwing them together. A conventional product in the patent document 1 is invented to solve this problem (referred to as a problem 0 hereinafter). As shown in the patent application 1, problems persist in the above-described junction structure because too much time and high technique are required to fabricate a machine such as a screw and because forming a smaller device tends to be prevented by introducing the screwing part. Disclosure of the Invention Problems to be solved The conventional device disclosed in the patent document 1, however, still have other screw part (16). Because the technology for manufacturing a screw costs much, operation of assembling the screw (that is, screwing in and together) takes much labor and time, and a lot of components (two components: the front segment 14 and the back segment 15) are needed for constructing a ferrule holder, in a conventional unit disclosed in the patent document 1 (problem 1). Moreover, the conventional unit shown in the above-described patent document 1 has the following problems. A cable adaptor 6 and a tubular main body 2 are bonded by mold forming of the tubular main body 2. Because of that, the cable adaptor 6, which is already completed as a component, is essential in a process for producing components which forms the tubular main body 2. Accordingly, it is impossible to carry out a process for manufacturing components for the cable adaptor 6 and a process for manufacturing components for the tubular main body 2 independently and in parallel. Such manufacturing processes prolong manufacturing time of a unit. Moreover, the necessity for using the cable adaptor 6 in a process of manufacturing components for the tabular main body 2 complicate the process for manufacturing the tabular main body 2 itself, which also causes to limit productivity of a unit. In the conventional unit, as illustrated by an arrow 22 in FIG. 5 of the patent document 1, at least the back segment 15 should be forced to pass through the tubular main body 2 from the opening part of the front end 3. In order to force the back segment 15 pass through, however, excessive pressure is exerted to the tubular main body 2, especially to the front end 3). Because of that, the tubular main body 2 is often damaged while assembling it, and problems persist in its productivity. Moreover, technology for sufficiently improving the productivity has not been established yet, and components should be assembled with enough caution. Accordingly, productivity problems are also left in assembling process. An optical contact unit which constructs an elastic contact at which a ferrule A connected to the end part of an optical fiber is faced and mechanically couples on another ferrule B placed at the front side of the ferrule A, comprising:  The optical contact unit according to claim 1, wherein    said main body comprises a second small diameter part having a third contact plane, which extends from the internal surface around a front opening part of said main body to inside in approximately vertical direction,    the maximum radius of said ferrule holder is smaller than the minimum radius of said first small diameter part and larger than the minimum radius of said second diameter part, and    an edge of the front opening part of said ferrule holder contacts to the third contact plane. The optical contact unit according to claim 1, wherein a taper part which helps to insert said cable adaptor into said main body is formed at the forward part of said large diameter part of said cable adaptor. The optical contact unit according to claim 1, wherein said main body comprises said taper part which helps to insert said cable adaptor at the back side of said first small diameter part. The optical contact unit according to claim 1, wherein a slit which penetrates from the back opening part in the optical axis direction is formed at said main body, and    wherein said slit reaches deeper in the forward direction into said main body than said first small diameter part. The optical contact unit according to claim 1, wherein said main body comprises:  The optical contact unit according to claim 1, wherein said elastic member is formed by using a metal coil spring. The optical contact unit according to claim 1, wherein said external surface of said cable adaptor is formed in an approximately rotator shape whose rotational axis is in said optical axis direction, and    said large diameter part is formed almost in a circle in circumferential direction around said external surface. The optical contact unit according to claim 1, wherein a through-type hole, which is formed at a supporting member which supports said cable adaptor and has an axis approximately corresponding to that of said cable adaptor, comprises at least a portion of said cable adaptor,    a rotational asymmetric part, which is asymmetric to the rotation around the axis of said cable adaptor, is formed at said external surface of said cable adaptor, and    a rotation preventing part contacts to a rotational preventing part which is formed at the internal surface of said through-type hole. The optical contact unit according to claim 1, wherein said rotational asymmetric part is formed by two planes which are approximately parallel with each other and sandwiching the axis of said cable adaptor. An optical plug which functions to face and connect forward facets of two ferrules, comprising an optical contact unit according to acclaim 1. <seperator>EP-1519246-A1<id_sep>sectionGsection groupG03G21slash00group classG03class subclassG03Gsubclass subgroupG03G21slash10subgroup Cleaning system with retractable blade and process for toner agglomeration removable A cleaning system and process for removing residual toner from an imaging surface, including a primary cleaner system for removing the predominant amount of residual toner and debris and a retractable secondary agglomeration cleaning blade mounted downstream from the primary cleaner, wherein, when the blade is moved into the engaged position, the cleaning edge is engaged with the imaging surface at for shearing release of agglomerations from the imaging surface and wherein the cleaning blade is movable to the retracted position during periods in which the primary cleaner is in its operative position.  BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY The invention relates to a cleaning sub system in an imaging system and more particularly to a cleaning mechanism for removing residual toner and debris from a charge retentive surface including a secondary cleaning system for release and removal of agglomerations that are not cleaned therefrom at the primary cleaner. In electrostatographic printing such as electrophotography, image transfer from the charge retentive surface to the printing substrate (such as paper) is known to at times be incomplete. In response, primary cleaning systems were developed to remove residual toner from the charge retentive surface prior to the next image development procedure. Such primary cleaning systems include one or more rotating electrostatic brushes, cleaning blades, electrostatic air cleaners, vacuum systems, and other similar systems used singly or in combination. For over a decade, the art of electrostatographic printing has understood that certain agglomerations of toner particles and other materials can stick to photoreceptors or other charge retentive surfaces sufficiently to resist removal by primary cleaning systems. Such agglomerations have multiple causes, including melting of toner resins, adherence of random glue materials transferred from printing substrates, paper fibers and other debris, and a combination of mechanical and electrostatic forces. Residual agglomerations can cause imaging defects such as streaks and spots. The longer the agglomerations are allowed to remain on the charge retentive surface, the harder they often become to remove. Additional material tends to build in the lee of initial agglomeration spots, and the combination of initial agglomerations and added material often forms agglomerations shaped like and sometimes named "comets". In response, secondary cleaning systems were installed. As taught in US-A-4,989,047 issued to Jugle et al. and US-A-5,031,000 issued to Pozniakas, et al., such a secondary cleaning system can comprise a relatively hard cleaning "spot" blade located downstream from the primary cleaning system for the purpose of shearing agglomerations that resist initial cleaning away from the imaging surface. Various improvements to this secondary cleaning system have been introduced, including improved design of the blade to resist blade tucking (See, US-A-5,349,428 issued to Derrick) and improved blade materials (See, e.g., US-A-5,339,149 issued to Lindblad; US-A-5,732,320 issued to Domagall et al.; and US-A-6,282,401 issued to Proulx et al.) In particular, Lindblad is significant since it recognizes that friction between the blade and the charge retentive surface causes heat that in turn causes certain agglomerations to adhere even more tightly to the surface and further resist cleaning. Each of these references cited above are hereby incorporated herein in their entirety. Even with the improvements referenced above, present techniques fail to completely remove harmful agglomerations. In particular, agglomerations that are lifted from the charge retentive surface sometimes stick to the spot blade itself rather than falling away or being removed by vacuum pressure. As the spot blade continues to press lightly against the photoreceptor or other charge retentive surfaces, stuck agglomerations slowly begin to mar the surface layers of the photoreceptor. Eventually, these micro-scratches wear enough from the photoreceptor that the scratches become visible in the developed images as streaks. At such time, good practice is to replace the photoreceptor. Often, the actual or expected appearance of such streaks sets the recommended time for replacement of the photoreceptor, even though, without such streaks, the photoreceptor remain within acceptable specifications for a considerably longer service life. A cleaning system for removing residual toner from an imaging surface, comprising:  The cleaning system of claim 1, further comprising a wiper mechanism wherein, when the blade is moved to the retracted position, the wiper mechanism removes sheared agglomerations from the cleaning edge. The cleaning system of claim 1, further comprising a catch tray situated to catch agglomerations sheared by the cleaning edge. The cleaning system of claim 1, wherein the forcing mechanism is a solenoid. The cleaning system of claim 1, wherein the forcing mechanism is a motor. The cleaning system of claim 1, further comprising a biasing mechanism for biasing the blade holder toward an initial position selected from the group consisting of the engaged position and the retracted position. A process for cleaning agglomerations from an imaging surface, comprising:  The process of claim 7, wherein engaging occurs between about 15 and about 30 percent of the duty cycle period of the imaging surface. The process of claim 8, wherein engaging occurs about 20 percent of the duty cycle of the imaging surface. <seperator>EP-1854426-A1<id_sep>subgroupA61B17slash16subgroup groupA61B19slash00group classA61class subgroupA61F2slash46subgroup subclassA61Fsubclass subgroupA61B17slash15subgroup subgroupA61F2slash32subgroup subgroupA61B18slash14subgroup subgroupA61B17slash56subgroup subgroupA61B17slash17subgroup sectionAsection subclassA61Bsubclass subgroupA61B17slash14subgroup Surgical navigation instrument useful in marking anatomical structures A surgical instrument having a grip, a reference structure and an alignment head and method of using. The reference structure has at least one reference element that is registrable in a computer assisted navigation system. The reference element may be a reflective structure for use in an optical tracking system, wire loop for sensing a magnetic field, or other suitable device. The alignment head has a substantially planar alignment surface and may also have a plurality of outwardly extending projections or an electrocautery electrode disposed along an edge of the alignment surface and extending parallel to the alignment surface. The projections may be engaged with an anatomical structure to hold the alignment head in a desired position as the alignment surface is used as a guide to mark the anatomical structure. The disclosed instrument may be used when resecting a femur to prepare the femur to receive the femoral component of a prosthetic hip joint.   The present invention relates to a navigational tool and, more specifically, a tool which may be used in an orthopedic surgical procedure employing computer assisted navigation. The controlled positioning of surgical instruments is of significant importance in many surgical procedures and various methods have been developed for properly positioning a surgical instrument. Such methods include the use of both mechanical guides and computer assisted navigational systems. Computer assisted navigational techniques typically involve acquiring preoperative images of the relevant anatomical structures and generating a data base which represents a three dimensional model of the anatomical structures. The relevant surgical instruments typically have a known and fixed geometry which is also defined preoperatively. During the surgical procedure, the position of the instrument being used is registered with the anatomical coordinate system and a graphical display showing the relative positions of the tool and anatomical structure may be computed in real time and displayed for the surgeon to assist the surgeon in properly positioning and manipulating the surgical instrument with respect to the relevant anatomical structure. In such image guided procedures, a robotic arm may be used to position and control the instrument, or, the surgeon may manually position the instrument and use the display of the relative position of the instrument and anatomical structure to position the instrument. Examples of various computer assisted navigation systems which are known in the art are described in  The present invention provides a surgical instrument which may be used with a computer assisted navigation system to facilitate the determination of a desired location on an anatomical structure such as a bone and the marking of the structure with a linear mark. For example, the instrument may be used in the location of a desired resection line on the neck of a femur being prepared to receive the femoral component of a prosthetic hip joint and provide an alignment guide that may be used in the marking of a line on the femoral neck. The invention comprises, in one form thereof, a surgical instrument for determining a location on an anatomical structure in cooperation with a computer assisted navigation system. The surgical instrument includes a grip portion, at least one reference element disposed on the instrument, and an alignment head. The at least one reference element is registerable in the computer assisted navigation system. The alignment head has a substantially planar alignment surface and a plurality of outwardly extending projections disposed along an edge of the alignment surface and extending parallel to the alignment surface wherein the projections are engageable with the anatomical structure and the alignment surface provides a guide for making a mark on the anatomical structure. In alternative embodiments, the alignment surface may also include a depression located therein. The instrument may also form a rigid elongate body between the reference structure and the alignment head. The projections may each include a surface disposed substantially co-planar with the alignment surface. The at least one reference element may be removably mounted on the surgical instrument and may include at least three non-linearly positioned reference elements. A surgical instrument comprising:  The instrument of claim 1 wherein said cauterizing edge is oriented substantially parallel with said alignment surface. The instrument of claim 1 wherein said electrocautery electrode defines at least a portion of said alignment surface. The instrument of claim 1 further comprising at least one reference element disposed on said instrument, said at least one reference element being registerable in a computer assisted navigation system. The instrument of claim 4 wherein said at least one reference element comprises at least three non-linearly disposed reference elements. The instrument of claim 1 further comprising a radio transparent portion extending between said alignment head and said grip portion. The instrument of claim 6 further comprising at least one electrically conductive member in electrical communication with said electrocautery electrode and at least partially disposed within said radio transparent portion, said radio transparent portion being an electrically insulative material. The instrument of claim 7 wherein said at least one electrically conductive member includes a conductive member projecting outwardly from said radio transparent portion. The instrument of claim 7 wherein said at least one electrically conductive member includes a radio opaque conductive member having a plurality of discontinuities viewable in a fluoroscopic image and disposed at predetermined distances from said alignment surface. A surgical instrument comprising:  The instrument of claim 10 further comprising at least one reference element disposed on said instrument, said at least one reference element being registerable in a computer assisted navigation system. The instrument of claim 11 wherein said at least one reference element comprises at least three non-linearly disposed reference elements. The instrument of claim 10 wherein said radio opaque member is at least partially encased in a radio transparent material. <seperator>EP-1259092-A2<id_sep>classH04class subclassH04Wsubclass sectionHsection groupH04W72slash00group subclassH04Bsubclass subgroupH04W72slash06subgroup subclassH04Jsubclass groupH04W16slash00group groupH04J1slash00group subgroupH04W16slash04subgroup subgroupH04B7slash26subgroup subclassH04Lsubclass subgroupH04L5slash14subgroup Mobile communication systems A mobile communication system includes a base station connected to a backbone network, and a mobile station configured to communicate with the base station using a radio frequency. The system has a first communication mode, in which a first radio frequency is used for an uplink and a second radio frequency is used for a downlink; a second communication mode, in which the first radio frequency is used for the uplink, and the second radio frequency is shared by the uplink and the downlink; a third communication mode, in which the second radio frequency is used for the downlink, and the first radio frequency is shared by the uplink and the downlink; and a mode switcher configured to switch the first through third communication modes in accordance with data transfer volumes on the uplink and the downlink.  BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The present invention generally relates to a mobile communication system, and more particularly, to a mobile communication system that is capable of switching the duplex modes of an uplink or downlink depending on the transmission volume communicated between a base station and a mobile station. Duplexing carried out in the current mobile communication system is generally classified into frequency division duplex (FDD) and time division duplex (TDD). Fig. 1 illustrates a conventional cell structure in FDD communication, and Fig. 2 illustrates the basic concept of conventional FDD communication. As shown in Fig. 1, base stations 11 Fig. 3 illustrates a conventional FDD mobile communication system. This FDD system includes a base station 11 The mobile station 21 In operation of the mobile station 21 The radio signals transmitted from the mobile station 21 On the other hand, in the downlink, digital signals received by the base station 11 The radio signals transmitted from the base station 11 In FDD, radio communication is carried out by allocating different frequencies f Figs. 4-7 illustrate the concept of conventional TDD communication. In conventional TDD, the same radio frequency is used on the uplink and the downlink, unlike FDD. As illustrated in Fig. 4, base stations 12 Fig. 6 illustrates a conventional TDD mobile communication system. This TDD system includes a base station 12 The mobile station 22 In operation of the mobile station 22 The radio signals transmitted from the mobile station 22 On the other hand, in the downlink, digital signals received at the base station 12 The radio signals transmitted from the base station 12 The switching controllers 121 and 113 of the base station 12 With this arrangement, during uplink communication, the signal processing unit 120 of the base station 12 In recent years, the volume of data transmitted in mobile radio communication has increased greatly. Unlike voice communication on telephone lines, data communication is likely to produce asymmetric situations in the volume of data between the uplink and the downlink. In particular, as browser phones, which are cellular phones allowing the users to access homepages uploaded in servers on the Internet or use electronic mail, have rapidly spread, digital contents is frequently downloaded from the servers set by providers. As a result, the data amount transmitted on the downlink is likely to be larger than that on the uplink. In the conventional duplex method (either FDD or TDD), even if the data amount on the downlink is much larger than that on the uplink because of asymmetric transmission volume, an equal radio frequency or a time slot has to be allocated to the uplink and the downlink. For this reason, the radio resources, such as a time slot or a frequency band, are wasted. Besides, since the radio frequency band allocated to mobile radio communication is limited, the transmission capacity of the system is also restricted. Accordingly, it is an important requirement to eliminate waste of radio resources so as to maximize deterioration of the transmission capacity of the system in the limited radio frequency band. From this viewpoint, the 3 A mobile communication system including a base station and a mobile station configured to communicate with the base station, characterized in:  A mobile communication system including a base station and a mobile station configured to communicate with the base station, characterized in:  A mobile communication system including a base station and a mobile station configured to communicate with the base station, characterized in:  The mobile communication system according to any one of claims 1 through 3, wherein the base station has a signal processing unit configured to receive a remote monitoring control signal supplied from a backbone network to which the base station is connected, and the mode switcher switches the communication modes based on the remote monitoring control signal. The mobile communication system according to any one of claims 1 through 3, wherein the mode switcher stores a time schedule for switching the communication modes and switches the communication modes automatically based on the time schedule. The mobile communication system according to any one of claims 1 through 3, wherein the base station has a signal processing unit configured to measure and compare the data transfer volumes of the uplink and the downlink, and the mode switcher switches the communication modes based on the comparison result. The mobile communication system according to claim 6, wherein the signal processing unit has a communication volume measuring unit configured to measure the data transfer volumes on the uplink and the downlink, and a comparator configured to compare the measuring results. The mobile communication system according to any one of claims 1 through 3, wherein either the first or the second frequency is shared by the uplink and the downlink at a predetermined allocation ratio of time slots, and the base station has a signal processing unit configured to adjust the allocation ratio of the time slots. The mobile communication system according to any one of claims 1 through 8, further comprising a plurality of cells, each cell including a base station, wherein the mode switcher switches the communication mode after at least two neighborhood base stations are synchronized with each other. The mobile communication system according to any one of claims 1 through 8, further comprising a plurality of cells, each cell including a base station, wherein uplink communication and downlink communication are switched at either the first or the second frequency at a predetermined time interval after at least two neighborhood base stations are synchronized with each other. A base station configured to communicate with a mobile terminal in a prescribed geographical area using at least two modes of:  The base station according to claim 11, wherein the signal processing unit having:  The base station according to claim 11, wherein the signal processing unit having:  A base station configured to communicate with a mobile terminal in a prescribed geographical area using at least two modes of:  A mobile terminal configured to communicate with a base station in a prescribed geographical area using at least two modes of:  A mobile terminal configured to communicate with a base station in a prescribed geographical area using at least two modes of:  <seperator>EP-1744379-A1<id_sep>subgroupH01L41slash08subgroup subgroupH01L41slash22subgroup sectionHsection subclassH01Hsubclass classG01class classH01class groupG01H11slash00group subclassG01Nsubclass subclassH01Lsubclass groupH01H57slash00group subgroupG01H11slash08subgroup groupG01H13slash00group sectionGsection subgroupG01N29slash36subgroup subgroupG01N29slash42subgroup subgroupG01N29slash04subgroup subclassG01Hsubclass subgroupG01N29slash12subgroup subgroupH01L41slash09subgroup ELASTIC BODY INSPECTION METHOD, INSPECTION DEVICE, AND DIMENSION PREDICTION PROGRAM In an inspecting method of a piezoelectric/electrostrictive actuator having a piezoelectric/electrostrictive element and two or more electrodes, the frequency response characteristics is picked up when a vibration is given to the piezoelectric/electrostrictive actuator, and the amount of displacement of the piezoelectric/electrostrictive actuator is predicted by the frequency response characteristics. The piezoelectric/electrostrictive actuator is precisely inspected without dissolution and destruction and without actual driving as a product. The present invention relates to an inspecting method, an inspecting apparatus, and a dimension predicting program of an elastic body with high precision, an inspecting method, an inspecting apparatus, and a dimension predicting program of a piezoelectric/electrostrictive actuator, and an inspecting method, an inspecting apparatus, and a dimension predicting program of a piezoelectric/electrostrictive sensor. Recently, the fields of optics, precision machines, and semiconductor manufacturing require a displacement control device for adjusting the length of optical path and the position of submicron order. In response to this requirement, a piezoelectric/electrostrictive device is developed, including a piezoelectric/electrostrictive actuator using the strain based on the inverse piezoelectric effect or electrostrictive effect upon applying an electric field to a ferroelectric member of an antiferroelectric member, and a piezoelectric/electrostrictive sensor using the charge generation upon applying the stress to the ferroelectric/antiferroelectric element based on the similar effects. The piezoelectric/electrostrictive device uses the charges or electric field induced by the strain of electric-field induction or stress as mentioned above. In particular, the piezoelectric/electrostrictive actuator has features that it is easily controlled for minute displacement, the mechanical/electrical energy conversion efficiency is higher, the power consumption is realized, and these thus contribute to the ultraprecise mounting and to the reduction in size and weight of product. Therefore, the application field might be enhanced. The piezoelectric/electrostrictive actuator comprises a piezoelectric/electrostrictive operating unit structured by sequentially laminating a bottom electrode, a piezoelectric/electrostrictive element, and a top electrode on one surface of a ceramic base integrally formed by a thick supporting unit having a cavity and a vibrating unit for covering the cavity. In the above-mentioned piezoelectric/electrostrictive actuator, an electric field is generated between the top electrode and the bottom electrode, then, the piezoelectric/electrostrictive element containing a piezoelectric/electrostrictive material is deformed and the vibrating unit is further vertically displaced. The piezoelectric/electrostrictive actuator is applied as an actuator unit of a precision machine using the operation for displacing the vibrating unit. For example, the piezoelectric/electrostrictive actuator controls the on/off operation of a switch or controls the fluid as a micro pump by vertically deforming the vibrating unit. When the piezoelectric/electrostrictive actuator is used as a switch or an actuator of a micro pump and the amount of displacement is not sufficiently large, the amount of stroke is not sufficient and the piezoelectric/electrostrictive actuator does not function as the switch, or the throughput of fluid is not sufficient in the micro pump. The fluid is not pulled out depending on the case. Further, upon using a set of a plurality of piezoelectric/electrostrictive actuators, the on/off operation of switch is unstable or the throughput of fluid is unstable when the amount of displacement of the plurality of piezoelectric/electrostrictive actuators varies. Thus, the quality of switch or micro pump deteriorates. Therefore, when the same voltage is applied (the same electric field is generated), the piezoelectric/electrostrictive actuator requires the vibrating unit with the amount of displacement that is a predetermined one or more and is uniform. Therefore, when the piezoelectric/electrostrictive actuator is shipped as a product, the amount of displacement of the vibrating unit must directly be inspected by a laser Doppler vibration-meter. However, the entire lots of the manufactured piezoelectric/electrostrictive actuators are inspected and then costs increase. Therefore, in place of this, another inspecting method is required. An inspecting method of an elastic body in a structure having two or more of elastic bodies which comprises  picking up a frequency response characteristics of an elastic body when a vibration is given to a structure having two or more of elastic bodies, and predicting a dimension of said two or more of elastic bodies based on said frequency response characteristics. An inspecting method of an elastic body according to Claim 1, wherein said frequency response characteristics is one of the characteristics selected from the group consisting of a combination of a resonance frequency Fx of one degree and resonant frequencies Fy of other degrees, one or more of frequency ratios FRxy wherein FRxy is Fy/Fx obtained by using said resonance frequency Fx of one degree and said resonant frequencies of other degrees and one or more of frequency differences FDxy (wherein FDxy is Fy-Fx) obtained by using said resonance frequency Fx of one degree and said resonant frequencies degrees. An inspecting method of an elastic body according to Claim 1, wherein said frequency response characteristics is one characteristic selected from the group consisting of a peak height PKx, an area Sx, and a difference between a maximum value and a minimum value of a resonance frequency of one degree, a ratio PKRxy of peak height, a difference PKDxy of peak height an area ratio SRxy, an area difference SDxy, a ratio of the difference between the maximum value and the minimum value, and a difference of the differences between the maximum value and the minimum value between said resonance frequency of one degree and resonant frequencies of other degrees. An inspecting method of a piezoelectric/electrostrictive actuator having a piezoelectric/electrostrictive element and two or more electrodes which comprises  picking up frequency response characteristics when a vibration is given to a piezoelectric/electrostrictive actuator, and  predicting an amount of displacement of the piezoelectric/electrostrictive actuator based on said frequency response characteristics. An inspecting method of a piezoelectric/electrostrictive actuator according to Claim 4, wherein said frequency response characteristics is a combination of a resonance frequency Fx of one degree and resonant frequencies Fy of other degrees, one or more of frequency ratios FRxy wherein FRxy is Fy/Fx obtained by using said resonance frequency Fx of one degree and said resonant frequencies of other degrees and one or more of frequency differences FDxy (wherein FDxy is Fy-Fx) obtained by using said resonance frequency Fx of one degree and said resonant frequencies of other degrees. An inspecting method of a piezoelectric/electrostrictive actuator according to Claim 4, wherein said frequency response characteristics is one characteristic selected from the group consisting of a peak height PKx, an area Sx, and a difference between a maximum value and a minimum value of a resonance frequency of one degree, a ratio PKRxy of peak height, a difference PKDxy of peak height an area ratio SRxy, an area difference SDxy, a ratio of the difference between the maximum value and the minimum value, and a difference of the differences between the maximum value and the minimum value between said resonance frequency of other degrees and resonant frequencies of other degrees. An inspecting method of a piezoelectric/electrostrictive sensor having a piezoelectric/electrostrictive element and two or more electrodes which comprises  picking up a frequency response characteristics when a vibration is given to a piezoelectric/electrostrictive actuator, and  predicting a detecting sensitivity of said piezoelectric/electrostrictive sensor based on said frequency response characteristics. An inspecting method of a piezoelectric/electrostrictive sensor according to Claim 7, wherein said frequency response characteristics is a combination of a resonance frequency Fx of one degree and resonant frequencies Fy of other degrees, one or more of frequency ratios FRxy wherein FRxy is Fy/Fx obtained by using said resonance frequency Fx of one degree and said resonant frequencies of other degrees and one or more of frequency differences FDxy (wherein FDxy is Fy-Fx) obtained by using said resonance frequency Fx of one degree and said resonant frequencies of other degrees. An inspecting method of a piezoelectric/electrostrictive sensor according to Claim 7, wherein said frequency response characteristics is one characteristic selected from the group consisting of a peak height PKx, an area Sx, and a difference between a maximum value and a minimum value of a resonance frequency of one degree, a ratio PKRxy of peak height, a difference PKDxy of peak height an area ratio SRxy, an area difference SDxy, a ratio of the difference between the maximum value and the minimum value, and a difference of the differences between the maximum value and the minimum value between said resonance frequency of one degree and resonant frequencies of other degrees. An inspecting apparatus of an elastic body in a structure having two or more of elastic bodies which comprises  means for picking up a frequency response characteristics when a vibration is given to a structure having two or more of elastic bodies, and  means for predicting an dimension of said elastic body based on said frequency response characteristics. An inspecting apparatus of an elastic body according to Claim 10, wherein said frequency response characteristics is a combination of a resonance frequency Fx of one degree and resonant frequencies Fy of other degrees, one or more of frequency ratios FRxy wherein FRxy is Fy/Fx obtained by using said resonance frequency Fx of one degree and said resonant frequencies of other degrees and one or more of frequency differences FDxy (wherein FDxy is Fy-Fx) obtained by using said resonance frequency Fx of one degree and said resonant frequencies of other degrees. An inspecting apparatus of an elastic body according to Claim 10, wherein said frequency response characteristics is one characteristic selected from the group consisting of a peak height PKx, an area Sx, and a difference between a maximum value and a minimum value of a resonance frequency of one degree, a ratio PKRxy of peak height, a difference PKDxy of peak height an area ratio SRxy, an area difference SDxy, a ratio of the difference between the maximum value and the minimum value, and a difference of the differences between the maximum value and the minimum value between said resonance frequency of one degree and resonant frequencies of other degrees. An inspecting apparatus of a piezoelectric/electrostrictive actuator having a piezoelectric/electrostrictive element and two or more electrodes which comprises  means for picking up a frequency response characteristics when a vibration is given to said piezoelectric/electrostrictive actuator, and  means for predicting an amount of displacement of said piezoelectric/electrostrictive actuator based on said frequency response characteristics. An inspecting apparatus of a piezoelectric/electrostrictive actuator according to Claim 13, wherein said frequency response characteristics is a combination of a resonance frequency Fx of one degree and resonant frequencies Fy of other degrees, one or more of frequency ratios FRxy wherein FRxy is Fy/Fx obtained by using said resonance frequency Fx of one degree and said resonant frequencies of other degrees and one or more of frequency differences FDxy (wherein FDxy is Fy-Fx) obtained by using said resonance frequency Fx of one degree and said resonant frequencies of other degrees. An inspecting apparatus of a piezoelectric/electrostrictive actuator according to Claim 13, wherein said frequency response characteristics is one characteristic selected from the group consisting of a peak height PKx, an area Sx, and a difference between a maximum value and a minimum value of a resonance frequency of one degree, a ratio PKRxy of peak height, a difference PKDxy of peak height an area ratio SRxy, an area difference SDxy, a ratio of the difference between the maximum value and the minimum value, and a difference of the differences between the maximum value and the minimum value between said resonance frequency of one degree and resonant frequencies of other degrees. An inspecting apparatus of a piezoelectric/electrostrictive sensor having a piezoelectric/electrostrictive element and two or more electrodes which comprises  means for picking up a frequency response characteristics upon vibrating a piezoelectric/electrostrictive sensor having a piezoelectric/electrostrictive element and two or more electrodes, and  means for predicting a detecting sensitivity of said piezoelectric/electrostrictive sensor based on said frequency response characteristics. An inspecting apparatus of a piezoelectric/electrostrictive sensor according to Claim 16, wherein said frequency response characteristics is a combination of a resonance frequency Fx of one degree and resonant frequencies Fy of other degrees, one or more of frequency ratios FRxy wherein FRxy is Fy/Fx obtained by using said resonance frequency Fx of one degree and said resonant frequencies of other degrees and one or more of frequency differences FDxy (wherein FDxy is Fy-Fx) obtained by using said resonance frequency Fx of one degree and said resonant frequencies of other degrees. An inspecting apparatus of a piezoelectric/electrostrictive sensor according to Claim 16, wherein said frequency response characteristics is one characteristic selected from the group consisting of a peak height PKx, an area Sx, and a difference between a maximum value and a minimum value of a resonance frequency of one degree, a ratio PKRxy of peak height, a difference PKDxy of peak height an area ratio SRxy, an area difference SDxy, a ratio of the difference between the maximum value and the minimum value, and a difference of the differences between the maximum value and the minimum value between said resonance frequency of one degree and resonant frequencies of other degrees. A dimension predicting program of an elastic body in a structure having two or more of elastic bodies, for enabling a computer to function as:  A prediction program of an amount of displacement of a piezoelectric/electrostrictive actuator for predicting an amount of displacement of said piezoelectric/electrostrictive actuator having a piezoelectric/electrostrictive element and two or more electrodes, for enabling a computer to function as:  A prediction program of a detecting sensitivity of a piezoelectric/electrostrictive sensor, for enabling a computer to function as:  <seperator>EP-1452689-A1<id_sep>groupF02C7slash00group subgroupF01D25slash12subgroup sectionFsection subgroupF01D5slash18subgroup classF02class subgroupF02C7slash16subgroup subclassF02Csubclass subgroupF02C7slash18subgroup subgroupF01D25slash08subgroup subclassF01Dsubclass classF01class subgroupF01D9slash02subgroup Gas turbine vane segment having a bifurcated cavity A turbine nozzle segment (10) includes a single hollow airfoil (28) extending radially between radially outer and inner band segments (24 and 26). The airfoil has an airfoil wall with pressure and suction sides (22 and 23) extending axially between leading and trailing edges (LE and TE) of the airfoil. The airfoil wall surrounds a bifurcated cavity (37) and a bifurcating rib (39) extends through the bifurcated cavity (37) and between the pressure and suction sides (22 and 23) of the airfoil wall dividing the bifurcated cavity (37) into forward and aft cavities (41 and 43). A stiffening rib (60) extends radially outwardly from and along a radially outer surface (62) of the outer band segment (24) and axially and circumferentially from a pressure side forward corner (64) of the outer band segment (24) to the bifurcating rib (39). The outer and inner band segments (24 and 26), the bifurcating rib (39), and the stiffening rib (60) are integral and made from a unitary one-piece casting.  The invention relates to gas turbine engines turbine nozzles segments and, particularly, for such segments having hollow vanes or airfoils with a cavity for receiving a cooling air distributing baffle. In a typical gas turbine engine, air is compressed in a compressor and mixed with fuel and ignited in a combustor for generating hot combustion gases. The gases flow downstream through a high pressure turbine (HPT) having one or more stages including one or more HPT turbine nozzles and rows of HPT rotor blades. The gases then flow to a low pressure turbine (LPT) which typically includes multi-stages with respective LPT turbine nozzles and LPI rotor blades. The HPT turbine nozzle includes a plurality of circumferentially spaced apart stationary hollow nozzle vanes supported between radially outer and inner bands. Typically, a single chamber impingement baffle is inserted in each hollow airfoil to supply cooling air to the airfoil. Each baffle can be fed through a single spoolie located radially outwardly of the outer band of the nozzle. The turbine rotor stage includes a plurality of circumferentially spaced apart rotor blades extending radially outwardly from a rotor disk which carries torque developed during operation. The HPT nozzles are typically formed in arcuate segments having two or more hollow vanes joined between corresponding segments of the outer and inner bands. Each nozzle segment is typically supported at its radially outer end by a flange bolted to an annular outer casing. Each vane has a cooled hollow airfoil disposed between radially inner and outer band panels which form the inner and outer bands. The airfoil, inner and outer band portions, flange portion, and intake duct are typically cast together such that each vane is a single casting. The vanes are brazed together along interfaces of the flange segments, inner band panels, and outer band panels to form the nozzle segment. Two or more airfoils may also be cast together in a single vane or nozzle segment. Certain two-stage turbines have a cantilevered second stage nozzle mounted and cantilevered from the outer band. There is little or no access between first and second stage rotor disks to secure the segment at the inner band. Typical second stage nozzles are configured with multiple airfoil or vane segments. Two vane designs, referred to as a doublets, are a very common design. Doublets offer performance advantages in reducing split-line leakage flow between vane segments. However, the longer chord length of the outer band and mounting structure compromises the durability of the doublet. The longer chord length causes an increase of chording stresses due to the temperature gradient through the band and increased non-uniformity of airfoil stresses. The box structure of a vane doublet also contributes to uneven stresses in the segment. The trailing vane of a doublet typically sees significantly higher stresses which limits the life of the segment. It is highly desirable to have a turbine nozzle segment which can be cantilever mounted from the outer band. It is also desirable to have turbine nozzle segments that avoid reduction in the durability of multiple vane segments due to longer chord length of the outer band and mounting structure. It is also desirable to have turbine nozzle segments that avoid increase of chording stresses due to temperature gradient through the band and increased non-uniformity of airfoil stresses due to longer chord length of the multiple vane segments. It is also desirable to have turbine nozzle segments that avoid increase of stresses in a trailing vane of a doublet or other multiple vane segment which limits the life of the segment. A turbine nozzle segment (10) comprising:  A turbine nozzle segment (10) as claimed in claim 1 further comprising at least one crossover hole (58) through the bifurcating rib (39). A turbine nozzle segment (10) as claimed in claim 1 further comprising a stiffening rib (60) extending radially outwardly from and along a radially outer surface (62) of the outer band segment (24) and extending axially and circumferentially from a pressure side forward corner (64) of the outer band segment (24) to the bifurcating rib (39). A turbine nozzle segment (10) as claimed in claim 3 wherein the stiffening rib (60) is axially and circumferentially aligned with the bifurcating rib (39). A turbine nozzle segment (10) as claimed in claim 3 wherein the stiffening rib (60) is aligned with a direction (63) of resultant gas loads on the airfoil (28). A turbine nozzle segment (10) as claimed in claim 3 further comprising an airfoil fillet (91) running around a junction between the airfoil (28) and the outer band segment (24) and an enlarged portion (93) of the airfoil fillet (91) where the bifurcating rib (39) intersects the suction side (23) of the airfoil (28). A turbine nozzle segment (10) as claimed in claim 6 wherein the stiffening rib (60) is axially and circumferentially aligned with the bifurcating rib (39). A turbine nozzle segment (10) as claimed in claim 3 wherein the hollow airfoil (28), the outer and inner band segments (24 and 26), the bifurcating rib (39), and the stiffening rib (60) are integral and made from a unitary one-piece casting. A turbine nozzle segment (10) as claimed in claim 3 wherein the stiffening rib (60) and the bifurcating rib (39) are substantial centered about a center plane (49) that falls outside a wheelbase (120) of the nozzle segment (10) at an aft end (128) of the outer band segment (24). A turbine nozzle segment (10) as claimed in claim 9 wherein the hollow airfoil (28), the outer and inner band segments (24 and 26), the bifurcating rib (39), and the stiffening rib (60) are integral and made from a unitary one-piece casting. A turbine nozzle segment (10) as claimed in claim 10 further comprising at number of crossover hole (58) through the bifurcating rib (39). A turbine nozzle segment (10) as claimed in claim 11 wherein the stiffening rib (60) is axially and circumferentially aligned with the bifurcating rib (39). A turbine nozzle segment (10) as claimed in claim 12 wherein the stiffening rib (60) is aligned with a direction (63) of resultant gas loads on the airfoil (28). <seperator>EP-1707587-A1<id_sep>subclassC08Bsubclass subgroupC08G65slash32subgroup subgroupC08G65slash30subgroup subgroupA61L27slash18subgroup groupC08B37slash00group subgroupC08L101slash14subgroup classA61class groupA61L27slash00group groupC08L101slash00group groupC08L71slash00group subclassA61Lsubclass subclassC08Lsubclass subgroupC08L71slash02subgroup groupC08G65slash00group sectionCsection subgroupC08B37slash16subgroup sectionAsection subclassC08Gsubclass classC08class COMPOUND HAVING CROSSLINKED POLYROTAXANE AND PROCESS FOR PRODUCING THE SAME It is intended to provide a crosslinked polyrotaxane formed by crosslinking polyrotaxane moleculesvia chemical bonds which exhibits excellent optical properties in water or in an aqueous solution of sodium chloride; a compound having this crosslinked polyrotaxane; and a process for producing the same. The above object can be achieved by a crosslinked polyrotaxane having at least two polyrotaxane molecules, wherein linear molecules are included in a skewered-like state at the opening of cyclodextrin molecules and blocking groups are provided at both ends of the linear molecules, so as to prevent the cyclodextrin molecules from leaving, and cyclodextrin molecules in at least two polyrotaxane molecules being bonded to each other via chemical bond,  The present invention relates to a crosslinked polyrotaxane obtained by crosslinking polyrotaxanes and a method for producing the crosslinked polyrotaxane. In particular, the present invention relates to a crosslinked polyrotaxane in which an OH group(s) included in a polyrotaxane is (are) substituted with a non-ionic group(s), and a method for producing the crosslinked polyrotaxane. Polyrotaxane is comprised of pseudopolyrotaxane, which comprises a linear molecule (axis) and cyclic molecules (rota) in which the linear molecule is included in cavities of cyclic molecules in a skewered manner, and capping groups, each of which locates at each end of the pseudopolyrotaxane (each end of the linear molecule) in order to prevent the dissociation of the cyclic molecules. For example, a polyrotaxane having α-cyclodextrin (hereinafter cyclodextrin may be simply abbreviatedas "CD") as cyclicmolecules, and polyethylene glycol (hereinafter may be abbreviated as "PEG") as a linear molecule has been intensively studied in recent years for its various characteristics. Patent Document 2 discloses a compound comprising crosslinked polyrotaxane having characteristics as so-called slipping or sliding gels or a viscoelastic material. Particularly, Patent Document 2 discloses a specific crosslinked polyrotaxane, wherein a molecule of polyrotaxane comprises α-CD molecule as a cyclicmolecule and PEG as a linear molecule included in the cyclic molecule, and molecules of polyrotaxane are crosslinked (bonded) to each other through chemical bonding. However, a polyrotaxane, in which a linear molecule, PEG, is included in cyclic molecules, CD molecules, is insoluble in most solvents including water, and soluble only in dimethylsulfoxide (hereinafter, abbreviated as DMSO) and an alkaline aqueous solutionwhen the linearmolecule has amolecular weight of 10, 000 or more. Accordingly, when preparing a crosslinked polyrotaxane, a solution of polyrotaxane in the solvent described above is used as a raw material. But, in order to use a crosslinked polyrotaxane stably, after preparing a crosslinked polyrotaxane, a solvent used in preparation, i.e., DMSO or an alkaline aqueous solution, must be replaced by pure water or saline. There is, however, a problem that optical characteristics, especially transparency of the crosslinked polyrotaxane are worsened at this time. An object of the present invention is to solve the problem described above. Specifically, an object of the present invention is to provide a cross linked polyrotaxane prepared by linking molecules of polyrotaxane through chemical bonding, which has excellent optical characteristics in water or saline, a compound comprising the crosslinked polyrotaxane and a method of preparing them. From the result of the extensive investigations to achieve the obj ect, the present inventors have foundthat, by substituting at least a part of hydroxyl groups of CD molecules forming a polyrotaxane with a non-ionic substituent, formation of hydrogen bondings among a plurality of the CD molecules is suppressed, and thereby reduction of optical characteristics of a crosslinked polyrotaxane, more specifically, reduced transparency of the crosslinked polyrotaxane can be alleviated. Specifically, the present inventors have found that the following inventions can solve the above-described problems. The present invention can provide a crosslinked polyrotaxane prepared by linking molecules of polyrotaxane through chemical bonding, which has excellent optical characteristics in water or saline, a compound comprising the crosslinked polyrotaxane and a method of preparing them. A crosslinked polyrotaxane comprising at least two molecules of polyrotaxane, in which a linear molecule is included in cavities of cyclodextrin molecules in a skewered manner, wherein the linear molecule has at each end a capping group to prevent the dissociation of the cyclodextrin molecules, the at least two molecules of polyrotaxane are crosslinked each other through chemical bonding, and a part of hydroxyl groups of the cyclodextrin molecules is substituted with a non-ionic group(s). The crosslinked polyrotaxane according to claim 1, wherein the non-ionic group is a -OR group, and R is a linear or branched alkyl group having 1-12 carbons, a linear or branched alkyl group having 2-12 carbons and at least one ether group, a cycloalkyl group having 3-12 carbons, a cycloalkyl ether group having 2-12 carbons or a cycloalkyl thioether group having 2-12 carbons. The crosslinked polyrotaxane according to claim 1, wherein the non-ionic group is a -O-R'-X group, and R' is a group resulting from removal of one hydrogen in a linear or branched alkyl group having 1-12 carbons, a group resulting from removal of one hydrogen in a linear or branched alkyl group having 2-12 carbons and at least one ether group, a group resulting from removal of one hydrogen in a cycloalkyl group having 3-12 carbons, a group resulting from removal of one hydrogen in a cycloalkyl ether group having 2-12 carbons or a group resulting from removal of one hydrogen in a cycloalkyl thioether group having 2-12 carbons, and X is OH, NH The crosslinked polyrotaxane according to claim 1, wherein the non-ionic group is a -O-CO-NH-R The crosslinked polyrotaxane according to claim 1, wherein the non-ionic group is a -O-CO-R The crosslinked polyrotaxane according to claim 1, wherein the non-ionic group is a -O-Si-R The crosslinked polyrotaxane according to claim 1, wherein the non-ionic group is a -O-CO-O-R The crosslinked polyrotaxane according to any one of claims 1 to 7, which has transmittance of 80 %/mmt or more at 400 to 800 nm. The crosslinked polyrotaxane according to claim 8, wherein the transmittance at 400 to 800 nm is 80 %/mmt or more at temperature of 0 to 90°C. The crosslinked polyrotaxane according to any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the crosslinked polyrotaxane has two times larger or more elastic modulus at 80°C than that at 25°C. The crosslinked polyrotaxane according to any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein substitution of the hydroxyl group with the non-ionic group is 10 to 90%, preferably 20 to 80%, and more preferably 30 to 70% of the total hydroxyl groups of the total cyclodextrin molecules. The crosslinked polyrotaxane according to any one of claims 1 to 11, wherein the cyclodextrin molecule is selected from the group consisting of α-cyclodextrin, β-cyclodextrin and γ-cyclodextrin. The crosslinked polyrotaxane according to any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein the linear molecule is selected from the group consisting of polyethylene glycol, polyisoprene, polyisobutylene, polybutadiene, polypropylene glycol, polytetrahydrofuran, polydimethylsiloxane, polyethylene and polypropylene. The crosslinked polyrotaxane according to any one of claims 1 to 13, wherein the capping group is selected from the group consisting of dinitrophenyl groups, cyclodextrins, adamantane groups, trityl groups, fluoresceins, pyrenes, substituted benzenes, polycyclic aromatics which may be substituted, and steroids. The crosslinked polyrotaxane according to any one of claims 1 to 14, wherein the cyclodextrin molecule is α-cyclodextrin, and the linear molecule is polyethylene glycol. The crosslinked polyrotaxane according to any one of claims 1 to 15, wherein the linear molecule has the cyclodextrin molecules included in a skewered manner at an amount of 0.001 to 0.6 of a maximum inclusion amount, which is defined as an amount at which the cyclodextrin molecule can be included at maximum when the linear molecule has the cyclodextrin molecules included in a skewered manner, and the amount at maximum is normalized to be 1. The crosslinked polyrotaxane according to any one of claims 1 to 16, wherein the at least two molecules of polyrotaxane are chemically bonded by a crosslinking agent. The crosslinked polyrotaxane according to claim 17, wherein the crosslinking agent has a molecular weight of less than 2,000. The crosslinked polyrotaxane according to claim 17 or 18, wherein the crosslinking agent is selected from the group consisting of cyanuric chloride, trimesoyl chloride, terephthaloyl chloride, epichlorohydrin, dibromobenzene, glutaraldehyde, phenylene diisocyanates, tolylene diisocyanates, divinylsulfone, 1,1'-carbonyldiimidazole and alkoxysilanes. The crosslinked polyrotaxane according to any one of claims 1 to 19, wherein at least one hydroxyl group of at least one cyclodextrin molecule in each of the at least two molecules of polyrotaxane is involved in crosslinking. A method for preparing a crosslinked polyrotaxane comprising the steps of:  The method according to claim 21, wherein the step of substituting is set after the step 2) of capping to prepare the polyrotaxane and before the step 3) of linking. A material comprising a cross linked polyrotaxane, wherein the crosslinked polyrotaxane comprises at least two molecules of polyrotaxane, in which a linear molecule is included in cavities of cyclodextrin molecules in a skeweredmanner, wherein the linear molecule has at each end a capping group to prevent the dissociation of the cyclodextrin molecules, wherein the at least two molecules of polyrotaxane are crosslinked each other through chemical bonding, and a part of OH groups of each of the cyclodextrin molecules is substituted with non-ionic group. The material according to claim 23, wherein the material further comprises water and has strength enough to be self-standing. The material according to claim 23 or 24, which has transmittance of 80 %/mmt or more at 400 to 800 nm. The material according to any one of claims 23 to 25, wherein the transmittance at 400 to 800 nm is 80 %/mmt or more at temperature of 0 to 90°C. The material according to any one of claims 23 to 26, wherein a weight ratio of the water to the crosslinked polyrotaxane (water : crosslinked polyrotaxane) is 1 : 99 to 99.9 : 0.1. The material according to any one of claims 23 to 27, wherein the material comprises the crosslinked polyrotaxane in an amount of 0.001 to 0.99 g/cm The material according to any one of claims 23 to 28, wherein the material has two times larger or more elastic modulus at 80°C than that at 25°C. <seperator>EP-1278070-A2<id_sep>subgroupH02M3slash24subgroup sectionHsection classH03class subclassH03Ksubclass sectionGsection classG01class classH02class subgroupH03K17slash78subgroup subclassH02Msubclass subclassG01Rsubclass subgroupH02M3slash28subgroup subgroupG01R19slash165subgroup Method and apparatus for low cost current and voltage sensing in circuits as a function of a voltage drop Method and apparatus to sense current and voltage in circuits as a function of a voltage drop. In one aspect of the invention, a sense circuit (147) includes a series combination of a diode (157) and a resistor (155) in the path of the current to be sensed, the voltage across this series combination coupled to drive a light emitting diode (LED) (159).  The present invention relates generally to circuits with voltage and current sensing and, more specifically, the present invention relates to current and voltage sensing in circuits with voltage drop. Most battery operated portable electronic products such as cell phones, personal digital assistants (PDAs), etc. require a low power alternating current (AC) to direct current (DC) charger power supply with a constant voltage and constant current (CC/CV) characteristics for charging batteries. Most of these chargers require relatively accurate and expensive circuitry to meet the specified current and voltage tolerances over temperature. In a known circuit, voltage is sensed by using an accurate programmable reference IC such as a TL431, which drives an opto-coupler feedback circuit to control the output voltage at a programmed value set by external resistors. A relatively high level of accuracy is needed at the output of the charger circuit in order to meet a lower accuracy at the load due to voltage drop in the output cable that connects the charger to the load (the electronic product). The voltage drop in the output cable reduces the output voltage as load increases degrading the overall voltage tolerance at the load. A required level of voltage accuracy at the charger output can be achieved by choosing a TL431 IC that has been trimmed to the appropriate accuracy level. TL431s with 3%, 2% and 1% accuracy are widely available. TL431 voltage reference is generally more expensive than a simple zener reference. However, zeners are generally difficult to get at tolerance below 2% and the zener voltage varies with the current through it, resulting in a poorer load regulation in circuits that have zener currents that vary with output load due to low gain of the feedback loop. In addition, they are only available in certain standard voltage values, which makes it difficult to center the output voltage at the optimum point for the best tolerance. For low cost, the current sensing in low power applications ( According to a first aspect of the invention there is provided a circuit, comprising: According to a second aspect of the invention there is provided a circuit, comprising: According to a third aspect of the invention there is provided a circuit, comprising: According to a fourth aspect of the invention there is provided a circuit, comprising: According to a fifth aspect of the invention there is provided a circuit, comprising: According to a sixth aspect of the invention there is provided a circuit, comprising: According to a seventh aspect of the invention there is provided a method, comprising: According to an eighth aspect of the invention there is provided a method, comprising: Thus methods and apparatuses for sensing current and voltage in circuits with voltage drop are disclosed. Using the invention it is possible to provide a current sense circuit including a series combination of a diode and a resistor in the path of the current to be sensed, the voltage across this series combination coupled to drive a light emitting diode (LED). In one embodiment, the LED is part of an optocoupler and the optocoupler is part of a feedback circuit of a switched mode power supply. In one embodiment, the diode is a PN junction diode. A circuit, comprising:  The circuit of claim 1 wherein the LED is included in an optocoupler. The circuit of claim 2 wherein the optocoupler is coupled to provide feedback from an output of a power supply, the optocoupler coupled to provide the feedback to a power supply controller included in the power supply. The circuit of claim 3 wherein the power supply is a switched mode power supply. The circuit of any of claims 1 to 4 wherein the first diode comprises a PN junction diode. The circuit of any preceding claims further comprising a second resistor coupled to the LED, the first diode and first resistor coupled to the LED and the second resistor. A circuit, comprising:  The circuit of claim 7 wherein the transistor is coupled to drive the LED in response to the voltage across the output of the circuit exceeding a sense voltage of the voltage sense circuit. The circuit of claim 8 wherein the transistor comprises a bipolar transistor having a base coupled to the voltage reference, the bipolar transistor to drive the LED when the voltage across the output exceeds the sense voltage of the voltage sense circuit. The circuit of claim 9 wherein the voltage reference is provided by a zener diode coupled to the output of the circuit. The circuit of claim 10 wherein the sense voltage includes a sum of the voltage reference provided by the zener diode and a forward base emitter voltage of the bipolar transistor. The circuit of any of claims 7 to 11, wherein the LED is included in an optocoupler. The circuit of claim 12 wherein the optocoupler is coupled to provide feedback from an output of a power supply, the optocoupler coupled to provide the feedback to a power supply controller included in the power supply. The circuit of claim 13 wherein the power supply is a switched mode power supply. The circuit of any of claims 7 to 14, wherein the first diode comprise a PN junction diode. A circuit, comprising:  The circuit of claim 16 wherein the sense voltage is coupled to be increased in response to an increase in a load current supplied from the output. The circuit of claim 16 or claim 17 wherein the compensation circuit further includes a diode coupled to the second resistor, the second resistor and diode coupled between the first resistor and the base of the bipolar transistor such that a sum of the voltage drop across the first resistor and the forward base emitter voltage of the bipolar transistor is to be applied across the second resistor and the diode. The circuit of any of claims 16 to 18 wherein the voltage reference is provided by a zener diode coupled to the output of the circuit such that the current through the second resistor is passed through the zener diode, the sense voltage includes a sum of the voltage reference provided by the zener diode and the forward base emitter voltage of the bipolar transistor. The circuit of claim 19 further comprising a third resistor coupled to zener diode such that the current through the second resistor is further passed through the third resistor, the sense voltage including a sum of the voltage reference provided by the zener diode, a voltage drop across the third resistor and the forward base emitter voltage of the bipolar transistor. The circuit of any of claims 18 to 20 wherein the diode comprises a PN junction diode. The circuit of any of claims 16 to 21 further comprising a light emitting diode (LED) coupled to be driven by the bipolar transistor, the LED included in an optocoupler. The circuit of claim 22 wherein the output is an output of a power supply, the optocoupler coupled to provide feedback from an output to a power supply controller included in the power supply. The circuit of claim 23 wherein the power supply is a switched mode power supply. A circuit, comprising:  The circuit of claim 25 wherein the voltage drop across the first resistor is increased in response to an increase in the load current supplied from the output. The circuit of claim 25 or claim 26 wherein the current sense circuit includes a second resistor coupled to a diode, the second resistor and diode coupled to the output such that the load current is directed through the second resistor and the diode. The circuit of claim 27 wherein the voltage compensation circuit includes a third resistor coupled to an emitter of a bipolar transistor, a series combination of the third resistor and a base emitter junction of the bipolar transistor coupled across the current sense circuit such that a collector current of the bipolar transistor is proportional to a voltage drop across the second resistor. The circuit of claim 28 wherein a collector of the bipolar transistor is coupled to the first resistor such that the voltage drop across the first resistor is responsive to the voltage drop across the second resistor. The circuit of any of claims 25 to 29 wherein the output is an output of a power supply, the optocoupler is coupled to provide feedback from the output to a power supply controller included in the power supply. The circuit of claim 30 wherein the power supply is a switched mode power supply. A circuit, comprising:  The circuit of claim 32 wherein the bipolar transistor includes one of a PNP transistor or an NPN transistor. A circuit, comprising:  A method, comprising:  The method of claim 35 wherein the LED is included in an optocoupler. The method of claim 36 wherein the optocoupler is coupled to provide feedback from an output of a power supply, the optocoupler coupled to provide the feedback to a power supply controller included in the power supply. The method of claim 37 wherein the power supply is a switched mode power supply. The method of any of claims 35 to 38 wherein forward voltage drop of the diode has a temperature coefficient that is substantially similar to the forward voltage drop of the LED The method of any of claims 35 to 39 further comprising:  The method of claim 40 further comprising changing the sense voltage of the voltage sense circuit as a function of the load current with a compensation circuit. A method, comprising:  The method of claim 42 further comprising:  <seperator>EP-1437486-A1<id_sep>subgroupF02D41slash22subgroup subclassF02Bsubclass sectionBsection subclassF02Dsubclass classF02class classF01class subclassB01Dsubclass groupF02D41slash00group subgroupF02D41slash38subgroup subgroupF02D41slash02subgroup classB01class groupF02D45slash00group subgroupF01N3slash02subgroup groupF01N9slash00group subgroupF01N3slash023subgroup subgroupB01D46slash42subgroup sectionFsection subclassF01Nsubclass subgroupF01N3slash022subgroup groupF02B37slash00group Exhaust gas purifying system of internal combustion engine An exhaust gas purifying system (100,200) of a diesel engine (1) comprises a PM filter (12) installed in an exhaust passage line of the engine to collect particulate matter (PM) in the exhaust gas from the engine (1); a pressure difference sensor (17) for detecting a pressure difference between upstream and downstream portions of the PM filter (12); a control unit (13) which comprises a collected PM amount estimating section (S1 to S5) that estimates an amount of collected PM in the PM filter (12) based on the pressure difference; and a reactivation timing judging section that, based on the estimated amount of the collected PM, judges a reactivation time when the reactivation of the PM filter is needed; and a reactivation carrying out system that, upon judgment of the reactivation time, carries out a predetermined operation to increases the temperature of the PM filter thereby to burn the collected PM. The control unit (13) further comprises a dispersion condition judging section (S16) that judges a dispersion condition of the collected PM in the PM filter; and a correction section (S18,S19;S24,S25,S26) that corrects the estimated amount of the collected PM in accordance with the judged dispersion condition of the collected PM.  BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 1. Field of the Invention The present invention relates in general to exhaust gas purifying systems of an internal combustion engine, and more particularly to the exhaust gas purifying systems of a type that is equipped with a PM collecting filter that collects PM (viz., particulate matter) in the exhaust gas from the engine. More specifically, the present invention is concerned with a technique for timely reactivating the PM collecting filter. 2. Description of the Related Art Hitherto, various exhaust gas purifying systems of the above-mentioned type have been proposed and put into practical use particularly in the field of diesel engines. One of them is described in Laid-open Japanese Application (Tokkaihei) 7-34853. In this system, a PM collecting filter is installed in an exhaust passage line of a diesel engine, and the filter is subjected to a heating for its reactivation at a given reactivation time. With the heating, the PM is burnt away and thus removed from the filter thereby to achieve a reactivation of the filter. For finding the reactivation time, a clogging degree of the filter is practically used, which controls the pressure loss at the position downstream of the filter. That is, under operation of the engine, exhaust pressures at positions upstream and downstream of the filter are monitored. By measuring a pressure difference between the two exhaust pressures, an amount of the PM collected by the filter is estimated, and when the estimated amount of the collected PM exceeds a predetermined value, it is judged that the reactivation time has come. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION Usually, collection of the PM starts from a downstream area of the filter. However, upon starting of the reactivation, a center area of the filter shows a higher temperature than a peripheral area of the same, and thus, upon starting of the reactivation, burning of the PM starts from the center area of the filter and then gradually spreads toward the peripheral area of the same. Thus, when, under reactivation of the filter, the operation of the engine is changed to such a condition as not to allow continuation of the reactivation and thus the reactivation of the filter is stopped, the filter is brought to a partial reactivation condition. Under this condition, burning of the PM collected in the peripheral area of the filter is not sufficiently carried out, which brings about an uneven dispersion of the PM in the entire area of the filter. Such uneven dispersion of the PM causes the upstream and downstream portions of the filter to show a lower pressure difference therebetween as compared with a case wherein the PM is evenly dispersed in the entire area of the filter. This means that the relationship between the pressure difference and the amount of collected PM changes between a case wherein the reactivation has been fully made and a case wherein the reactivation has been partially made. This undesired change or estimation error of the relationship tends to interrupt the exhaust gas purifying system from exhibiting a satisfied performance. An exhaust gas purifying system (100, 200) of an internal combustion engine (1), comprising:  An exhaust gas purifying system as claimed in Claim 1, in which the correction section (S18, S19) (S24, S25, S26) comprises a plurality of different characteristic tables (Figs. 8A and 8B) each showing a relationship between the pressure difference at the PM filter and the estimated amount of collected PM in the PM filter with respect to the dispersion condition of the collected PM in the PM filter (12). An exhaust gas purifying system as claimed in Claim 2, in which the different characteristic tables (Figs. 8A and 8B) are selectively switched for the estimation of the amount of collected PM in accordance with the dispersion condition of the collected PM in the PM filter (12). An exhaust gas purifying system as claimed in Claim 3, in which the characteristic tables (Figs. 8A and 8B) comprise:  An exhaust gas purifying system as claimed in Claim 1, in which once a reactivation operation of the PM filter (12) is carried out by the reactivation carrying out system, the dispersion condition judging section (S16) carries out a judgment as to whether the reactivation operation thus carried out is a complete reactivation operation (Fig. 5A) or an incomplete reactivation operation (Fig. 5B). An exhaust gas purifying system as claimed in Claim 4, in which once a reactivation operation of the PM filter is carried out by the reactivation carrying out system, the dispersion condition judging section (S16) carries out a judgment as to whether the reactivation operation thus carried out is a complete reactivation operation that brings about the even dispersion condition (Fig. 5A) of the collected PM or an incomplete reactivation operation that brings about the uneven dispersion condition (Fig. 5B) of the collected PM. An exhaust gas purifying system as claimed in Claim 6, in which the complete reactivation operation is judged when the reactivation operation has been made fulfilling a predetermined complete reactivation condition, and the incomplete reactivation operation is judged when the reactivation operation has been made fulfilling a predetermined reactivation break condition. An exhaust gas purifying system as claimed in Claim 1, in which the dispersion condition judging section (S16) judges the dispersion condition of the collected PM on the basis of rate of change (d(ΔP)/dt) of the pressure difference at the PM filter (12) at the time when the reactivation operation is finished. An exhaust gas purifying system as claimed in Claim 1, in which the reactivation carrying out system functions to heat up the exhaust gas of the engine by retardation of fuel injection timing of an associated fuel injection valve (9), post injection that is an additional fuel injection carried out in an expansion stroke or exhaust stroke of an associated piston, reducing an open degree of an intake throttle valve (7) or reducing a super-charged pressure generated by a variable throat type supercharger (4). An exhaust gas purifying system (100, 200) of a diesel engine (1) having an exhaust passage line, comprising:  In an exhaust gas purifying system (100, 200) of an internal combustion engine (1) including a PM filter (12) that is installed in an exhaust passage line extending from the engine for collecting particulate matter (PM) in the exhaust gas from the engine, a pressure difference sensor (17) that detects a pressure difference between upstream and downstream portions of the PM filter (12), and a reactivation carrying out system that, upon need of a reactivation of the PM filter, carries out a predetermined operation to increase the temperature of the PM filter thereby to burn the collected PM in the PM filter (12),    a method of controlling the exhaust gas purifying system (100, 200) comprising:  <seperator>EP-1413216-A1<id_sep>classA43class groupA43B23slash00group subgroupA43B23slash08subgroup subclassA43Bsubclass subgroupA43B5slash16subgroup sectionAsection Improved skate structure A skate structure comprising: a first shoe body (4) for accommodating the user's foot; a second  shoe body (3) designed to accommodate the first shoe body; a rigid sole (2) designed to be joined to  the second shoe body; a frame (1) comprising a support structure (11) having a top surface that joins  to the rigid sole and two sidewall elements (111) for holding the skate's means of movement (12). The  rigid sole also has a rigid toe-piece (200) and two lateral extensions (24). The skate structure also  comprises: first fastening means constituted by adhesive elements positioned between the  second shoe body and the rigid toe-piece and between the second shoe body and the front  portion of the rigid sole; second fastening means, at least partially constituted by screw  fittings, joining the frame to the rigid sole.   This invention relates to an improved skate structure, particularly an improved skate structure for roller-skates, and more particularly for roller-skates having a plurality of in-line wheels. Roller-skates, particularly in-line skates, usually have a structure comprising a first unit constituted by a frame to which the means of movement are fixed, for example a plurality of in-line wheels, and a second unit comprising the shoe assembly that will hold the user's foot. These two units are generally joined to each other either directly or using additional intervening elements, such as a rigid sole for example. The various units and elements are then connected to each other using appropriate fastening means, resulting in a single structure. More particularly, the first unit is constituted by a frame made from a light, rigid material, such as aluminium or plastic, to the sidewall elements of which a plurality of wheels are fixed. The top section of the frame, which is generally constituted by a relatively flat surface, is designed for attachment of the rest of the skate structure. In modem versions of in-line skates, the second unit is normally constituted by a first shoe body with flexible upper, said shoe body being structured so as to accommodate the user's foot directly, or else designed to accommodate a second flexible shoe body that is normally detachable from said first shoe body. Fastening elements, usually constituted by a system of laces and corresponding slots, are usually only found on the first shoe body. A rigid sole is normally placed between the two sub-units. In modem versions of in-line skates, this sole is constituted by a substantially flat first portion upon which the sole of the flexible first shoe body and consequently the sole of the user's foot rests, and by a second portion constituted by a cup structure placed on the rear half of the sole, in a position roughly corresponding to the heel and ankle area, to provide lateral support to the ankle and to hold the shoe body in place on the sole. A rigid leg section fitted with fasteners is also normally located in the area of the user's ankle. A plurality of fastening means is therefore needed to join the various sub-units and components to each other. These fastening means normally comprise of a plurality of rivets for joining the flexible first shoe body to the rigid sole, the rivets preferably being placed at the tip of said shoe body and sole. Further fastening means are then needed to join together the frame, the rigid sole and the flexible first shoe body. These fastening means normally consist of a screw, the head of which is inside the flexible first shoe body and acts on the sole. The screw passes through the sole of the flexible first shoe body, through further holes on the flat portion of the rigid sole and on the flat surface of the top part of the frame, and is fixed in place by, for example, a nut placed under said flat surface. Skate structure comprising: a first, detachable shoe body (4), designed to  accommodate the user's foot; a flexible, second shoe body (3), designed to hold said  detachable first shoe body and having an assembly sole (33) and an upper (31)  comprising soft side edges, with first means of closure (32) being placed on said  flexible second shoe body (3); a rigid sole (2) designed to be joined to the assembly  sole (33); a frame (1) comprising a support structure (11) having a top surface that  joins with said rigid sole (2) and two sidewall elements (111) for holding the means of  support for said skate's means of movement (12), characterised in that said rigid sole  (2) is associated with a rigid toe-piece (200) placed at the front tip and two lateral  extensions (24) rising from the rear portion of said sole, and characterised in that it  comprises first and second fastening means, the first fastening means being constituted  by adhesive elements used at the interface between said second shoe body and at least  a portion of the internal surface of said rigid toe-piece and at the interface between  said second shoe body and the front portion of said second sole, the second fastening  means being at least partially constituted by screw elements joining said frame (1) to  said rigid sole (2).  Skate structure according to claim 1, characterised in that it comprises third fastening  means joining said lateral extensions (24) to the upper (31) of said flexible second  shoe body (3).  Skate structure according to claims 1 or 2, characterised in that said two lateral  extensions (24) create a space designed to accommodate a rear portion of said flexible  second shoe body (3).  Skate structure according to one or more of the previous claims, characterised in that  each of said two lateral extensions (24) comprises a curved segment having a first rear    end, a second front end, an apex, a first rear arm and a second front arm joining said  apex to said first rear end and said second front end respectively, said third fastening  means being in a position corresponding to said apex.  Skate structure according to one or more of the previous claims, characterised in that  said two lateral extensions (24) are joined to each other at the rear by a curved  segment in rigid material.  Skate structure according to one or more of the previous claims, characterised in that  said rigid sole (2), said rigid toe-piece (200) and said two lateral extensions (24)are  produced in a single body.  Skate structure according to one or more of the previous claims, characterised in that  said first fastening means are placed at the interface between said second shoe body  (3) and said rigid sole (2) in an area roughly corresponding to the area of the  phalanges and at least part of the metatarsus of the user's foot.  Skate structure according to one or more of the previous claims , characterised in that  said rigid sole (2) has a first (22) and second (23) hole respectively positioned in a  front area (21) and a rear area of said sole (2), a pair of corresponding holes (13) being  made on the top part of the support structure (11)of said frame (1), said second  fastening means comprising a pair of screws joining said sole (2) to said frame (1) by  passing through said first (22) and second (23) holes in the sole (2) and said pair of  corresponding holes (13) on the frame.  Skate structure according to claim 8, characterised in that said first fastening means  are placed at the interface between said second shoe body (13) and said rigid sole (2)  in front of the point in which said first hole (22) is made in the sole (2).  Skate structure according to claims 8 or 9, characterised in that at least one of said first  (22) and second (23) holes in the sole (2) is constituted by a long slot running  longitudinal to the sole (2).  Skate structure according to one or more of the claims from 1 to 7, characterised in  that said top part of said support structure (11) of said frame (1) has a longitudinal  channel running along it.  Skate structure according to one or more of the previous claims, characterised in that it  comprises a collar (20), said collar (20) being fitted with second means of closure  (201,202) and being fixed to each of said two lateral extensions (24).  Skate structure according to claim 12, characterised in that said collar (20) is fixed to  each of said two lateral extensions (24) in a position corresponding to said third  fastening means, said third fastening means constituting an axis of partial rotation for  said collar (20).  Skate structure according to one or more of the previous claims, characterised in that  said second shoe body comprises first means of closure (32) comprising rigid edge  elements having at least one side fixed to the upper (31) of said flexible second shoe  body (3), said rigid edge elements being also fitted with one or more fastening  elements.  Skate structure according to one or more of the previous claims, characterised in that  said means of movement are constituted by a plurality of wheels (12), preferably a  plurality of in-line wheels.  <seperator>EP-1375347-A1<id_sep>sectionBsection subclassB64Dsubclass groupB64D25slash00group classB64class subgroupB64D25slash14subgroup Temperature compensating inflation device and method A dual stage hybrid inflation device (100) includes a pressure switch (150) that prevents the second stage pyrotechnic gas generator (130) from being initiated when the additional heat and gas would overpressurize the first stage pressure vessel (114). As the pressurized gas stored in the first stage pressure vessel escapes the first stage pressure vessel, the pressure in the first stage pressure vessel drops. If the pressure in the first stage pressure vessel drops below the threshold pressure of the pressure switch, the pressure switch closes allowing the voltage signal to reach the pyrotechnic gas generator thereby initiating the second stage gas source. In an alternative embodiment, the pressure transducer is replaced by a pressure transducer or a temperature transducer and timing circuit (70). By delaying the initiation of the second stage gas source until after the pressure in the first stage pressure vessel has dropped below the threshold level, the appropriate augmentation of the compressed first stage gas can be realized without the necessity of designing the first stage pressure vessel to withstand initiation of the pyrotechnic gas generator under maximum inflation pressure conditions.  This invention relates to emergency evacuation equipment for aircraft. In particular, this invention relates to an inflation device for inflating an inflatable aircraft evacuation slide or other inflatable device. The requirement for reliably evacuating airline passengers in the event of an emergency is well known. Emergencies at take-off and landing often demand swift removal of the passengers from the aircraft because of the potential for injuries from fire, explosion, or sinking in water. A conventional method of quickly evacuating a large number of passengers from an aircraft is to provide multiple emergency exits, each of which is equipped with an inflatable evacuation slide. Current state of the art emergency evacuation slide systems comprise an inflatable evacuation slide which is stored in an uninflated folded state together with a source of inflation gas. The source of inflation gas typically comprises a gas generator, stored compressed gas, or a combination thereof. Pyrotechnic gas generators have an advantage in that they are small, lightweight, and produce a high volume of gas, however, the high temperature gas produced by a gas generator alone can cause numerous problems including sagging of the evacuation slide as the inflation gas cools and, in some cases, melting of the fabric out of which the inflation slide if fabricated Use of stored compressed gas by itself, although simple, implicates a weight penalty that must be paid for carrying a pressure vessel having sufficient capacity (in terms of volume and pressure) to inflate the evacuation slide over the wide operational temperature range specified for such slides. Additionally, where only a compressed gas is used to inflate the evacuation slide, a large drop in temperature occurs as the gases expand, often causing ice to form, which can block the flow of gas. Accordingly, state-of-the-art emergency evacuation slide evacuation systems typically comprise a hybrid inflator, which utilizes a stored compressed gas together with a pyrotechnic gas generator. The pyrotechnic gas generator augments the stored compressed gas by providing additional gas, as well as heat to counteract the effects of the expansion-induced cooling of the compressed gas as it expands out of the pressure vessel. To further augment the volume of gas delivered to the evacuation slide, many evacuation systems utilize aspirators such as that disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,368,009 to Heimovics, et al. As the compressed gas flows through the aspirator, a venturi is produced that causes the aspirator to pump about two to three times as much gas as is supplied by the compressed gas source alone. Despite these advances, there still exist problems due to the wide ambient temperature range over which these inflation systems are required to operate, typically from -65° F to +165°F. The amount of gas available must be enough to pressurize the evacuation slide at the coldest temperature. However, because of the relationship between pressure and temperature within a fixed volume, as the ambient temperature rises above the minimum, the pressure within the pressure vessel rises proportionately. Accordingly, in current state-of-the-art hybrid inflation systems, the storage vessel must be capable of withstanding the pressure of the compressed gas at 165°F. Not only this, but the storage vessel must withstand the overpressure at 165°F caused by the pyrotechnic gas generator, even though use of the pyrotechnic gas generator at 165°F causes the inflation system to produce substantially more gas than is necessary to inflate the evacuation slide. Additionally, the substantial overpressure caused at high temperature further increases the weight of the system, because additional Pressure Relief Valves (PRV's) must be incorporated into the evacuation slide to vent the excess gases. Apparatus for inflating an inflatable device comprising:  The apparatus of claim 1, wherein:  The apparatus of claim 1, wherein:  The apparatus of claim 1, wherein:  The apparatus of claim 4, wherein:  The apparatus of claim 5, further comprising:  The apparatus of claim 1, wherein:  The apparatus of claim 7, wherein:  Apparatus for inflating an inflatable device comprising:  The apparatus of claim 9, wherein:  The apparatus of claim 10, wherein:  The apparatus of claim 11, further comprising:  The apparatus of claim 9, wherein:  The apparatus of claim 13, wherein:  Apparatus for inflating an inflatable device comprising:  The apparatus of claim 15, wherein:  The apparatus of claim 16, wherein:  The apparatus of claim 17, further  The apparatus of claim 15, wherein:  The apparatus of claim 19, wherein:  A method for inflating an inflatable device comprising:  The method of claim 21, wherein:  The method of claim 22, wherein:  The method of claim 21, wherein:  The method of claim 21, wherein:  The method of claim 21, further comprising:  A method for inflating an inflatable device comprising:  The method of claim 27, wherein:  The method of claim 27, further comprising:  A method for inflating an inflatable device comprising:  The method of claim 30, wherein:  The method of claim 30, wherein:  The method of claim 30, further comprising:  The method of claim 30, wherein:  A method for inflating an inflatable device comprising:  The method of claim 35, wherein:  The method of claim 36, wherein:  Apparatus for inflating an inflatable device comprising:  The apparatus of claim 38, wherein:  The apparatus of claim 39, wherein  The apparatus of claim 40, wherein:  The apparatus of claim 38 wherein:  The apparatus of claim 42 wherein: <seperator>EP-1522228-A1<id_sep>sectionBsection groupA41B11slash00group subgroupA43B7slash12subgroup groupC09J7slash00group subgroupA43B23slash07subgroup groupA43B19slash00group classA41class subclassA43Bsubclass subgroupB32B27slash04subgroup classA43class subclassA41Bsubclass groupA43B7slash00group groupA43B23slash00group classC09class subclassC09Jsubclass sectionCsection subgroupB32B7slash02subgroup subclassB32Bsubclass sectionAsection classB32class Sock-shaped footwear lining, and footwear incorporating said lining This invention relates to a sock designed to act as a footwear lining, and footwear incorporating said sock. The sock according to the invention consists of two or more layers, in particular three layers, of elastic material, the edges of which are joined without stitching, in particular with adhesive tape. These characteristics produce a sock which perfectly adapts to the shape of the foot and the footwear, which has good waterproofing characteristics and which, due to the absence of stitching, has no areas which may be uncomfortable or scratch the foot.  This invention relates to a sock designed to act as a footwear lining, and footwear incorporating said sock. The sock according to the invention consists of two or more layers, in particular three layers, of elastic material, the edges of which are joined without stitching, in particular with adhesive tape. These characteristics produce a sock which perfectly adapts to the shape of the foot and the footwear, which has good waterproofing characteristics and which, due to the absence of stitching, has no areas which may be uncomfortable or scratch the foot. Different types of footwear linings are known which constitute an effective barrier to liquids, while still allowing the foot to breathe to a certain extent. Patent WO 00/22948 in the name of Nextec describes a process for waterproofing leather, which involves causing at least one semi-permeable membrane to adhere to the inner surface of the leather by pressure, the surface of said membrane which comes into contact with the leather being coated with a layer of glue spread in a particular pattern. Patent WO 01/30190 in the name of Gore illustrates a lining designed to be applied to the inner surface of footwear; said lining comprises a layer of waterproof material which is designed to be attached to the upper and follows its shape, and is connected to the lining layer of the sole at the lower edge. Patent USA 4,599,810 describes a footwear lining that comprises at least one layer which is made of breathable waterproof material applied to the inner surface of the upper, and follows its shape. Said patent also addresses the problem of the stitching in the membrane used to make the coating because, as stated in the text, water can seep through the holes of the stitches and penetrate into the shoe. This problem is solved by the above-mentioned US patent 4,599,810 by applying waterproof adhesive tape over the stitching. However, that patent neither addresses nor solves the problem of skin discomfort sometimes caused by stitching. Known solutions include the use of an inner sock, which is glued to the surface of the upper and the sole, which said inner sock has a waterproof layer (made of Gore-tex® or fluorocarbon and/or polyurethane) and is stitched at the join areas, the stitching being concealed by adhesive tape. This solution creates problems, however, because the tape and the stitching tend to crease during use at the points where the thickness is greatest due to the overlap of the stitched edges, and the stitching tends to break or the tape becomes detached at the creases, eventually allowing water to seep in; in any event, these creases at the stitching cause discomfort to the user's skin. Moreover, the waterproof layer of this type of footwear is non-stretch, so the sock must perfectly follow the entire inner surface of the upper, including the "tongue" area (namely the area where the shoe opens so that it can be put on), which has a leather protective layer, and this entails other drawbacks in terms of creasing and premature delamination. Sock designed to replace a footwear lining, characterised in that it consists of two or more layers of material wherein at least one of said layers (2) is elastic and the other layers are bonded to said elastic layer so as to follow its deformations. Sock designed to replace a footwear lining as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that it consists of a membrane (2) made of elastic material with waterproofing characteristics, bonded to a lining (4) made of a material suitable to increase the user's comfort, and to an outer protective layer (3). Sock designed to replace a footwear lining as claimed in claim 2, characterised in that it consists of an intermediate layer (2) made of waterproofing material, an inner layer (4) made of hydrophilic material designed to absorb the moisture produced by perspiration, and an outer protective layer (3). Sock designed to replace a footwear lining as claimed in claim 3, wherein said inner layer (4) is constituted by a hydrophilic fabric. Sock designed to replace a footwear lining as claimed in claim 3, characterised in that the outer layer (3) is made of polyester or polyamide. Sock designed to replace a footwear lining as claimed in any of the preceding claims, characterised in that the edges (6, 7) are joined without stitching at the join areas. Sock designed to replace a footwear lining as claimed in claim 6, characterised in that the edges are joined with adhesive tape (9). Sock designed to replace a footwear lining as claimed in claim 7, characterised in that said adhesive tape (9) is the polyurethane type, with hot polyurethane glue (10). Footwear characterised in that it includes a sock as claimed in any of the preceding claims. Process for the manufacture of a sock as claimed in any of the preceding claims, characterised in that:  <seperator>EP-1512586-A1<id_sep>subgroupB60T7slash04subgroup subgroupG05G1slash40subgroup sectionBsection classG05class subgroupG05G1slash32subgroup subclassB60Tsubclass sectionGsection subgroupB60R21slash09subgroup subclassG05Gsubclass subgroupB60T7slash06subgroup subclassB60Rsubclass subgroupB60R21slash02subgroup classB60class subgroupG05G1slash30subgroup Automotive pedal support structure First and second guide members  The present invention relates to operating pedal support structures disposed behind dashpanels of automobiles. Generally, when an automobile collision (in particular, a forward collision) is about to occur, a driver brakes the automobile by stepping on a brake pedal in order to avoid this collision. Nevertheless, in many cases, the automobile does not stop and causes the collision with the driver stepping on the brake pedal. In such a forward collision, a front body crushes while absorbing collision energy, and an engine disposed within an engine room moves backward while pushing a dashpanel that is located behind the engine to serve as a partition between the engine room and a cabin. In the front body, a brake master cylinder is provided in front of the dashpanel, and is connected via an operating rod to a brake pedal located behind the dashpanel. Thus, with the backward movement of the dashpanel (and the master cylinder), the brake pedal is also pushed and moved backward via the operating rod. As a result, a foot space for a driver becomes narrow, which brings about the situation where a steering column for supporting a steering wheel or other members are likely to interfere with a foot of the driver stepping on a pedal portion (i.e., a stepped-on portion) of the brake pedal. Therefore, in order to reduce the impact that acts upon the foot of the driver, it is necessary to ensure a sufficient foot space when the dashpanel is deformed as described above. Specifically, if the movement of the pedal portion of the brake pedal toward the rear of the automobile body can be suppressed upon backward movement of the dashpanel, a large foot space can be maintained below a driver's seat irrespective of the deformation of the dashpanel. In consideration of this, United States Patent No. 6339971 discloses an automotive pedal support structure in which a pedal portion of an operating pedal such as a brake pedal is moved relatively toward the front of an automobile body when a dashpanel is deformed toward a cabin. In this automotive pedal support structure, the operating pedal is supported to a pedal bracket fixed to the dashpanel such that the operating pedal can be swung forward and backward. And this automotive pedal support structure is provided with: a fastening mechanism for fastening the pedal bracket to the automobile body so that the pedal bracket can be detached toward the rear of the automobile body; and a guide mechanism for changing the position of the pedal bracket to cause the relative movement of the pedal portion of the operating pedal toward the front of the automobile body when the pedal bracket is moved relatively toward the rear of the automobile body. This guide mechanism includes: a guide member fixed to a reinforcing member extended in a widthwise direction of the automobile body within an instrument panel; and an abutment member fixed to the pedal bracket. The abutment member is fastened to the guide member so as to be detachable backward, and is slidable on and in surface contact with a guide surface formed at the guide member. The guide surface is inclined to become lowered toward the rear of the automobile body. An automotive pedal support structure characterized by comprising:  The automotive pedal support structure of Claim 1, characterized in that:  The automotive pedal support structure of Claim 2, characterized in that    the inclination of the second guide surface is steeper than that of the first guide surface. The automotive pedal support structure of Claim 2, characterized in that:  The automotive pedal support structure of Claim 2, characterized in that:  The automotive pedal support structure of Claim 2, characterized in that    the abutment part comprises a single abutment part, and the single abutment part abuts against and slides along the second guide surface after having finished sliding along the first guide surface. The automotive pedal support structure of Claim 2, characterized in that:  The automotive pedal support structure of Claim 7, characterized in that    the first and second guide surfaces are located to overlap with each other in plan view. The automotive pedal support structure of Claim 7, characterized in that    the first and second abutment parts are located so that the second abutment part abuts against the second guide surface after the first abutment part has finished sliding along the first guide surface. The automotive pedal support structure of Claim 7, characterized in that:  The automotive pedal support structure of Claim 7, characterized in that:  The automotive pedal support structure of Claim 1, characterized in that:  The automotive pedal support structure of Claim 12, characterized in that:  The automotive pedal support structure of Claim 12, characterized in that:  The automotive pedal support structure of Claim 12, characterized in that:  The automotive pedal support structure of Claim 12, characterized in that    the abutment parts are each formed by a hollow or solid cylindrical pin member. The automotive pedal support structure of Claim 12,characterized in that:  <seperator>EP-1234988-A2<id_sep>subgroupF16C33slash04subgroup subclassF16Csubclass subgroupF16C3slash02subgroup sectionFsection subgroupF16C23slash04subgroup groupF16C25slash00group classF16class groupF16C23slash00group subgroupF16C25slash04subgroup subgroupF16C17slash10subgroup groupF16C17slash00group subgroupF16C33slash24subgroup Special type bearing device The invention provides a special type bearing device that is insusceptible to damage, is light in weight, has a long service life, and excellent wear resistance, is insusceptible to the effect of change in temperature, is easy to fabricate, and has little offensiveness towards mating members. Further, the same is capable of sufficiently retaining a lubricant such as oil and grease, and retaining the lubricant for a long period of time without the need of supplying oil during operation, thereby rendering it maintenance-free. That is, the special type bearing device as described above comprises an axis (1), a pair of rotating bodies fixedly attached to the axis (1), and a supporting body with which the rotating bodies are in contact, wherein any one of the axis (1), the rotating bodies, and the supporting body is made of RB ceramic or CRB ceramic.  The present invention relates to a special type bearing device making use of a new type of high-tech eco-material (state-of-the-art material excellent in ecological adaptability) which is different from conventional industrial material in that biomass resources is utilized. For conventional special type bearing devices, copper based or iron based sintered alloy, polymer resin material (nylon, Teflon, other synthetic resin, and so forth), and non-ferrous material, such as phosphor bronze, brass and so forth, have been in widespread use, however, these materials have each its own problem. Conditions required of special type bearing devices include small friction coefficient, small insusceptibility to the effect of temperature, easiness with which to fabricate, low cost, and little offensiveness towards mating members. None of the various conventional materials described above can satisfy all these conditions as required. For example, the copper based sintered alloy is soft in hardness, and has large friction coefficient, so that it is susceptible to the effect of change in temperature while its wear resistance is less than satisfactory depending on its application. The iron based sintered alloy has problems in that it is inferior in affinity and conformability with mating members, is incapable of raising its oil retention ratio to a sufficiently high level, and has high expansion coefficient and so forth. As for the polymer resin material, it is in principle intended for use in the case of dry friction where no lubricating oil is used, and its application is limited to the cases of use under a light load, use in a dry condition, and so forth. Further, it has problems such as limitations to enhancement of friction coefficient as well as wear resistance besides a problem of thermal expansion. Meanwhile, the non-ferrous material described above can exhibit a function of satisfactory lubrication in its application under a high load, at low revolution and so forth, however, it is not necessarily satisfactory in respect of friction coefficient, and wear resistance. Now, an attempt to obtain a porous carbonaceous material by utilizing rice bran, produced in quantity of 900, 000 tons a year in Japan and in as much as 33 million tons a year throughout the world, has been well known by researches carried out by Mr. Kazuo HOEKIRIGAWA, the first inventor of the present invention (refer to "Functional Material", May issue, 1997, Vol. 17, No. 5, pp. 24 ∼ 28). Herein are disclosed a carbonaceous material (referred to hereinafter as RB ceramic) obtained by mixing degreased bran derived from rice bran with a thermosetting resin before kneading, drying a formed kneaded mixture obtained by pressure-forming a kneaded mixture, and subsequently, firing the formed kneaded mixture as dried in an inert gas, and a method of producing the carbonaceous material. With such a method as described above, however, it has been practically difficult to form the formed kneaded mixture with high precision because there occurs discrepancy in dimensions by as much as 25% in terms of a contraction ratio of the dimensions of a finished formed product obtained after firing in the inert gas to those of the formed kneaded mixture prepared by pressure-forming. A special type bearing device comprising an axis (1), a pair of rotating bodies fixedly attached to the axis, and a supporting body with which the rotating bodies are in contact, wherein any one of the axis (1), the rotating bodies, and the supporting body is made of RB ceramic or CRB ceramic. A special type bearing device as set forth in claim 1, wherein the rotating bodies, and the whole or only contact parts of the supporting body are made of RB ceramic or CRB ceramic. A special type bearing device as set forth in claim 1 or claim 2, wherein each of the rotating bodies is in the shape of a hemisphere (3-1, 3-2) or a cone (4-1, 4-2), and the supporting body has a conical surface suitable for accommodating the rotating bodies . A special type bearing device as set forth in claim 3, wherein one or more than one grooves (6) are provided on contact faces of the supporting body, in contact with each of the rotating bodies. A special type bearing device as set forth in claim 4, wherein the groove (6) or the grooves (6) are configured into an annular shape, spiral shape, or radial shape. A special type bearing device as set forth in any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein any one of the pair of the rotating bodies is kept out of contact with the axis (1), and is preloaded in the direction towards the other of the rotating bodies . A special type bearing device as set forth in any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein both of the pair of the rotating bodies are kept out of contact with the axis (1), and are preloaded from two directions opposite to each other, respectively. A special type bearing device as set forth in any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein the supporting body is divided into two parts (2-1, 2-2) so as to be preloaded. A sleeve bearing device comprising an axis (1), a pair of side rings (11, 12) fixedly attached to the axis (1), and a sleeve bearing (14), wherein any one of the axis (1), the side rings (11, 12), and the sleeve bearing (14) is made of RB ceramic or CRB ceramic. A sleeve bearing device as set forth in claim 9, wherein one or more than one grooves (13), configured into an annular shape, spiral shape, or radial shape, are provided on a contact face of each of the side rings (11, 12). A spherical special type bearing device comprising an axis (1), a rotating body fixedly attached to the axis (1), and a supporting body, the rotating body being a spherical body (16) while the supporting body supporting the spherical body (16) in such a way as to surround the latter at four points, wherein any one of the axis (1), the rotating body, and the supporting body is made of RB ceramic or CRB ceramic. A spherical special type bearing device as set forth in claim 11, wherein the spherical body is either a proper sphere or an oval. A spherical special type bearing device as set forth in claim 11 or claim 12, wherein quartered parts of the supporting body are integrally joined together with spacers (15) and are kept energized. A spherical special type bearing device comprising an axis (1), a rotating body in the shape of a sphere having a convex surface, fixedly attached to the axis, and a supporting body having a concave spherical surface, the sphere having the convex surface being in surface contact with the supporting body having the concave spherical surface across the entire surface thereof, wherein any one of the axis, the rotating body, and the supporting body is made of RB ceramic or CRB ceramic. A special type bearing device as set forth in any one of claims 1 to 14, wherein any one of the axis (1), the rotating body or bodies, and the supporting body is made of RB ceramic or CRB ceramic, and the RB ceramic or the CRB ceramic is impregnated with a lubricating oil. A miniature motor incorporating the special type bearing device as set forth in any one of claims 1 to 15. A spindle motor incorporating the special type bearing device as set forth in any one of claims 1 to 15. A pivot ass'y for an HDD, incorporating the special type bearing device as set forth in any one of claims 1 to 15. A special type bearing device of a single structure, comprising an axis (1), a single rotating body fixedly attached to the axis, and a supporting body with which the single rotating body is in contact, wherein any one of the axis (1), the rotating body, and the supporting body is made of RB ceramic or CRB ceramic. A special type bearing device of a single structure as set forth in claim 19, wherein the rotating body is in the shape of a hemisphere (3) or a cone (4), and the supporting body has a conical surface suitable for accommodating the rotating body. A special type bearing device of a single structure as set forth in claim 19 or claim 20, wherein one or more than one grooves (6), configured into an annular shape, spiral shape, or radial shape, are provided. <seperator>EP-1443135-A1<id_sep>sectionDsection subgroupD04B21slash14subgroup subgroupD04B21slash18subgroup subclassD04Bsubclass classD04class STRETCHABLE WARP KNITTED FABRIC, PRODUCTION METHOD THEREFOR AND STRETCHABLE GARMENT The present invention provides stretchable warp-knitted fabric that is a 1 × 1 tricot formed by running a non-elastic yarn and an elastic yarn side by side in such a manner that in each stitch, at least one of the non-elastic yarn and the elastic yarn forms a closed loop, a method for manufacturing the fabric, and stretchable clothing using the fabric at least in a part. Since a cut edge of the knitted fabric can be used as a hem of the clothing without finishing, sewing is simplified. It is possible to provide fashionable clothing that has appropriate stretchability enabling the clothing to well fit the body of the wearer, that is thin and has a beautiful texture, and that, when it is formed in underwear, has a hem line invisible through outerwear.  Technical Field The present invention relates to stretchable warp-knitted fabric that is thin and has beautiful knitted loops and large stretchability, formed by using a non-elastic yarn and an elastic yarn, a method for manufacturing the fabric, and clothing manufactured by using the fabric. Furthermore, in particular, the clothing of the present invention relates to novel stretchable clothing that has appropriate stretchability, an excellent fashion property, and the like, and is formed particularly with a cut edge intact. Background Art With the increasing progress in the diversification and tendency toward fashion of clothing, in particular, clothing for women, a variety of knitted fabrics have been invented one after another, and put into practical use, which enriches life. The diversification and tendency toward fashion of clothing for women have progressed more and more with the times. Above all, there is a great demand for fashionable foundation clothing that has appropriate stretchability enabling the clothing to well fit the body of a wearer, that is thin and has beautiful knitted loops, and that, when it is formed in underwear, has a hemline invisible through outerwear. In addition, there is a tendency that a cut edge of knitted fabric is used as it is without hem finishing (hemming) so that the knitted fabric can be used as fashionable clothes. Among the knitted fabrics, there is a great demand for fashionable knitted fabric that is thin and has beautiful knitted loops, and that has large stretchability enabling the fabric to well fit the body of a wearer. Furthermore, recently, there also is the following tendency: knitted fabric is formed, which is unlikely to be frayed at a cut edge when the fabric is cut, and the knitted fabric is used with a cut part thereof intact without processing an edge to form clothing, whereby a sawing operation is simplified, and such knitted fabric is used for fashionable clothes. In conventional clothing, in order to prevent a cut edge (edge that is cut in an intact state) from being frayed, it is necessary to perform some finishing (processing). Such hem finishing necessitated by cutting is called hemming or the like, and its method is varied depending upon a portion and a material. For example, a cloth edge is sewn up while being folded back; a cloth edge is sewn up with another cloth or a stretchable tape attached thereto; or a cloth edge is subjected to thread stitching. This operation causes a considerable burden in sewing of clothing. Furthermore, a hemline of underwear is seen in a convex shape through outerwear, which impairs wearing comfort. Conventionally, for making it unnecessary to finish an edge of clothing, there are methods for pulling out a yarn from spandex power net knitted fabric and for sewing knitted fabric, an end of a lace of which is cut so as to make it difficult for an edge to be frayed, into clothing. However, in any of these methods, an edge of clothing to be provided has a straight line or a substantially straight line, and edges that are not required to be finished can be formed only in upper and lower parallel lines. Stretchable warp-knitted fabric that is a 1 × 1 tricot knitted comprising:  The stretchable warp-knitted fabric according to claim 1, wherein both the non-elastic yarn and the elastic yarn form closed loops. The stretchable warp-knitted fabric according to claim 1, wherein the non-elastic yarn forms closed loops, and the elastic yarn forms open loops. The stretchable warp-knitted fabric according to claim 1, wherein both the non-elastic yarn and the elastic yarn form open loops and closed loops alternately, in such a manner that in one stitch, the elastic yarn forms a closed loop with respect to an open loop formed by the non-elastic yarn, and in another stitch, the elastic yarn forms an open loop with respect to a closed loop formed by the non-elastic yarn. The stretchable warp-knitted fabric according to claim 1, which is finished with a narrow width of 60 wales or more per inch (2.54 cm). The stretchable warp-knitted fabric according to claim 1, which is knitted by setting a runner of the non-elastic yarn to be larger than that of the elastic yarn, and setting the runner of the non-elastic yarn to be 85 to 120 cm/rack and the runner of the elastic yarn to be 70 to 110 cm/rack. The stretchable warp-knitted fabric according to claim 1, which is subjected to at least one of preset and heat set at a temperature equal to or greater than 180°C. The stretchable warp-knitted fabric according to claim 1, which is knitted by using the elastic yarn having a fineness larger than that of the other parts partially for a knitting yarn as a reinforced fastening part. The stretchable warp-knitted fabric according to claim 1, wherein an elastic yarn further is inlaid. The stretchable warp-knitted fabric according to claim 1, wherein a non-elastic yarn further is inlaid. The stretchable warp-knitted fabric according to claim 1, which is knitted with a pattern formed thereon by a Jacquard single raschel knitting machine. The stretchable warp-knitted fabric according to claim 1, which is knitted into a tube shape or a bag shape by a Jacquard double raschel knitting machine. The stretchable warp-knitted fabric according to claim 1, which is knitted into a tube shape or a bag shape with a pattern formed thereon by a Jacquard double raschel knitting machine. The stretchable warp-knitted fabric in which a plurality of the same stretchable warp-knitted fabrics according to claim 1 are laminated to be attached to each other. The stretchable warp-knitted fabric in which a plurality of at least two kinds of knitted fabrics selected from the stretchable warp knitted fabrics according to one of claims 1 to 13 are laminated to be attached to each other. The stretchable warp-knitted fabric according to claim 1, which is knitted or cut into a tape shape. The stretchable warp-knitted fabric according to claim 1, further comprising required holes opened by after-processing. A method for manufacturing stretchable warp-knitted fabric comprising: in knitting the stretchable warp-knitted fabric according to claim 1,    knitting in a drawing yarn; and    pulling out the drawing yarn after knitting, thereby dividing the knitted fabric into a plurality of parts. Stretchable clothing formed so as to include stretchable warp-knitted fabric having a knitted texture that is a 1 × 1 tricot knitted comprising a non-elastic yarn and an elastic yarn running side by side, in such a manner that in each stitch, at least one of the non-elastic yarn and the elastic yarn forms a closed loop. The stretchable clothing according to claim 19, wherein the stretchable warp-knitted fabric is subjected to at least one of preset and heat set at a temperature equal to or greater than 180°C. The stretchable clothing according to claim 19, wherein the stretchable warp-knitted fabric is knitted with a density greater than 65 wales per inch (2.54 cm). The stretchable clothing according to claim 19, wherein the stretchable warp-knitted fabric is knitted by setting a runner of the non-elastic yarn to be larger than that of the elastic yarn, and setting the runner of the non-elastic yarn to be 85 to 120 cm/rack and the runner of the elastic yarn to be 70 to 110 cm/rack. The stretchable clothing according to claim 19, wherein the stretchable warp-knitted fabric further comprises a reinforced fastening part by using an elastic yarn having a fineness larger than that of the other parts partially for a knitting yarn, or by inlaying a plurality of elastic yarns. The stretchable clothing according to claim 19, wherein one of a part and an entire edge of the clothing is formed of a cut edge of the stretchable warp-knitted fabric without hemming. The stretchable clothing according to claim 24, wherein a line of the edge without hemming has a waveform. The stretchable clothing according to claim 19, wherein the stretchable warp-knitted fabric forms at least upper and lower edges of the clothing, and the edges remain cut without hemming. The stretchable clothing according to claim 26, which is formed so as to include the stretchable warp-knitted fabric as the same one body fabric without seams in a vertical direction forming the upper and lower edges. The stretchable clothing according to claim 26, wherein lines forming the upper and lower edges without hemming are not parallel to each other. The stretchable clothing according to claim 19, wherein a cutting direction of the stretchable warp-knitted fabric forms an acute angle with respect to a knitting direction, and the clothing is formed so as to include the cut edge without hemming. The stretchable clothing according to claim 19, wherein the stretchable warp-knitted fabric is cut in a range equal to or less than 45° with respect to a knitting direction, and the clothing is formed so as to include the cut edge without hemming. The stretchable clothing according to claim 19, which is one foundation clothing selected from a girdle, a short panty, and a body suite, worn with at least a lower body part included. The stretchable clothing according to claim 31, wherein a bottom hem part on a hip forms one large curve without hemming. The stretchable clothing according to claim 32, wherein the one large curve (a) is shaped in such a manner that when a straight line (d) connecting an upper end (b) of a bottom part of a hip cloth to a lower end (c) of the bottom part of the hip cloth is connected to a most projecting point (e) of a lower side of the cloth abutting on a curved hip with a perpendicular line (f) under a condition that the clothing is placed flat with a front surface upward and right and left sides folded, a length of the perpendicular line (f) is at least 15 mm. The stretchable clothing according to claim 19, which is made of laminated stretchable warp-knitted fabric wherein a plurality of the same stretchable warp-knitted fabrics are laminated to be attached to each other, the stretchable warp-knitted fabric being a 1 × 1 tricot having a knitted texture including a non-elastic yarn and an elastic yarn running side by side, in such a manner that in each stitch, at least one of the non-elastic yarn and the elastic yarn forms a closed loop. The stretchable clothing according to claim 34, wherein the laminated stretchable knitted fabric is used as back cloth of at least one of brassieres and clothing for sports corresponding to the brassieres. <seperator>EP-1507422-A1<id_sep>classH04class subclassH04Wsubclass sectionHsection subgroupH04W36slash18subgroup groupH04W36slash00group subgroupH04W36slash08subgroup Serving base station selection during soft handover The present invention relates to methods for controlling a plurality of base stations in a mobile communication system comprising a communication terminal, the plurality of base stations and a control unit connected to the plurality of base stations, wherein the communication terminal is in a soft handover. Further, the present invention relates to methods for signaling uplink channel quality characteristics, that are considered when controlling the plurality of base stations. Finally, the present invention relates to a base station, the control unit and the communication terminal which are specifically adapted to perform the control method and the signaling method respectively. To reduce the signaling load on the wired interface between a base station and a control unit the present invention selects a serving base station based on uplink channel quality characteristics and controls one or more of the base stations except the serving base station not to transmit data via the wired interface.  The present invention relates to methods for controlling a plurality of base stations in a mobile communication system comprising a communication terminal, the plurality of base stations and a control unit connected to the plurality of base stations, wherein the communication terminal is in a soft handover. In an alternative architecture the mobile communication system comprises a communication terminal, a plurality of base stations and a gateway interconnecting the mobile communication network to a fixed communication network. Further, the present invention relates to methods for signaling uplink channel quality characteristics, that are considered when controlling the plurality of base stations. Finally, the present invention relates to a base station, the control unit and the communication terminal that are specifically adapted to perform the control method and the signaling method respectively. TECHNICAL BACKGROUND W-CDMA (Wideband Code Division Multiple Access) is a radio interface for IMT-2000 (International Mobile Communication), which was standardized for use as the 3 The standardized European version of IMT-2000 is commonly called UMTS (Universal Mobile Telecommunication System). The first release of the specification of UMTS has been published in 1999 (Release 99). In the mean time several improvements to the standard have been standardized by the 3GPP in Release 4 and Release 5 and discussion on further improvements is ongoing under the scope of Release 6. The dedicated channel (DCH) for downlink and uplink and the downlink shared channel (DSCH) have been defined in Release 99 and Release 4.. In the following years, the developers recognized that for providing multimedia services - or data services in general - high speed asymmetric access had to be implemented. In Release 5 the high-speed downlink packet access (HSDPA) was introduced. The new high-speed downlink shared channel (HS-DSCH) provides downlink high-speed access to the user from the UMTS Radio Access Network (RAN) to the communication terminals, called user equipments in the UMTS specifications. HSDPA is based on techniques such as fast packet scheduling, adaptive modulation and hybrid ARQ (HARQ) to achieve high throughput, reduce delay and achieve high peak data rates. HYBRID ARQ SCHEMES The most common technique for error detection of non-real time services is based on Automatic Repeat reQuest (ARQ) schemes, which are combined with Forward Error Correction (FEC), called Hybrid ARQ. If Cyclic Redundancy Check (CRC) detects an error, the receiver requests the transmitter to send additional bits or a new data packet. From different existing schemes the stop-and-wait (SAW) and selective-repeat (SR) continuous ARQ are most often used in mobile communication. A data unit will be encoded before transmission. Depending on the bits that are retransmitted three different types of ARQ may be defined. In HARQ Type I the erroneous data packets received, also called PDUs (Packet Data Unit) are discarded and new copy of that PDU is retransmitted and decoded separately. There is no combining of earlier and later versions of that PDU. Using HARQ Type II the erroneous PDU that needs to be retransmitted is not discarded, but is combined with some incremental redundancy bits provided by the transmitter for subsequent decoding. Retransmitted PDU sometimes have higher coding rates and are combined at the receiver with the stored values. That means that only little redundancy is added in each retransmission. A method for controlling a plurality of base stations in a mobile communication system comprising a communication terminal, said plurality of base stations and a control unit connected to said plurality of base stations, the communication terminal being in communication with said plurality of base stations during a soft handover, the method comprising the steps of:  The method according to claim 1, further comprising the steps of:  The method according to claim 1 or 2, further comprising the step of:  The method according to claim 1 or 2, further comprising the step of:  The method according to claim 4, further comprising the steps of:  The method according to one of claims 3 to 5, wherein said notification and said status report are transmitted to the control unit in at least one frame protocol control frame or by radio network signaling messages over a wired interface. The method according to one of claims 1 to 6, wherein said step of selecting the serving base station is executed by said control unit. The method according to one of claims 1 to 7, wherein said selection of the serving base station is periodically triggered by a configurable timer. The method according to claim 8, wherein said timer value is signaled to said serving base station within a radio link addition function or a combined radio link addition and removal function. The method according to claim 8 or 9, wherein said timer value is signaled to said serving base station in an information element of an NBAP or RNSAP radio link setup request message. The method according to claim 1 to 10, wherein the step of evaluating an uplink channel quality characteristic comprises averaging parameters indicating the uplink channel quality over a configurable time interval. The method according to claim 11, wherein said time interval is configured by at least one signaling message of a radio resource control protocol or at least one system specific control plane protocol message. The method according to claim 11 or 12, wherein said time interval is selected taking into account the velocity in a movement of said communication terminal, the signaling delay between said control unit and a base station, and the signaling delay between different control units in the mobile communication system . The method according to one of claims 1 to 13, wherein said control unit transmits a selection command to the new serving base station upon selection. The method according to claim 14, wherein said control unit further transmits the selection command to the previous serving base station. The method according to claim 14 or 15, wherein the selection command indicates an activation time at which the new serving base station should start forwarding the successfully received data packets, control packets or notifications to said control unit and at which the previous serving base station should stop forwarding the successfully received data packets, control packets or notifications to said control unit. The method according to claim 16, wherein the previous serving base station and said control unit negotiate said activation time by exchanging control messages. The method according to claim 17, wherein said control message is one of a radio link reconfiguration message, an activation time negotiation request message, and an activation time confirmation message of NBAP or RNSAP protocols. A method for controlling a plurality of base stations in a mobile communication system comprising a communication terminal, said plurality of base stations and a gateway interconnecting said mobile communication network to a fixed communication network, the communication terminal being in communication with said plurality of base stations during a soft handover, the method comprising the steps of:  The method according to claim 19, further comprising the steps of:  The method according to claim 19 or 20 , further comprising the steps of:  The method according to one of claims 19 to 21, wherein said notification and said status report are transmitted to said serving base station in at least one frame protocol control frame or by radio network signaling messages over a wired interface. The method according to one of claims 19 to 22, wherein said step of selecting the serving base station is executed by the current serving base station. The method according to claim 1 to 23, wherein said uplink channel quality characteristic is determined based on at least one of a path loss for an uplink channel between said communication terminal and the respective base station, closed loop power control commands transmitted by a base station to said communication terminal, and uplink interference. The method according to one of claims 1 to 24, wherein said selection of the serving base station is independent from uplink data channel air interface transmission. The method according to one of claims 19 to 25, wherein said selection of the serving base station is periodically triggered by a configurable timer. The method according to claim 19 to 26, wherein the step of evaluating an uplink channel quality characteristic comprises averaging parameters indicating the uplink channel quality over a configurable time interval. The method according to claim 27, wherein said time interval is configured by radio resource control signaling or another system specific control plane protocol. The method according to claim 27 or 28, wherein said time interval is selected taking into account the velocity in a movement of said communication terminal, and the signaling delay between at least two base stations of said plurality of base stations. The method according to one of claims 19 to 29, wherein the current serving base station transmits a selection command to the new serving base station upon selection. The method according to claim 30, wherein the selection command indicates an activation time at which the new serving base station should start forwarding the successfully received data packets to a gateway interconnecting the mobile communication network to a fixed communication network, and at which the previous serving base station should stop forwarding the successfully received data packets to the gateway. The method according to one of claims 15 to 18 or claim 30 or 31, wherein the previous or current serving base station and the new serving base station continue their serving base station functionality in parallel for a predetermined time period. The method according to one of claims 14 to 18 or claim 30 or 31, wherein the selection command is transmitted in an information element of NBAP or RNSAP message. The method according to one of claims 1 to 33, wherein the received data packet is transmitted in at least one frame protocol data frame and the control packet and/or the notification is transmitted in at least one frame protocol control frame. A base station in a mobile communication system wherein a communication terminal is in communication with a plurality of base stations during a soft handover, wherein said base station comprises means for implementing the method according to one of claims 1 to 34. A control unit in a mobile communication system comprising a communication terminal, a plurality of base stations and said control unit connected to said plurality of base stations, the communication terminal being in communication with said plurality of base stations during a soft handover, wherein said control unit comprises means for implementing the method according to one of claims 1 to 18. A method for signaling uplink channel quality characteristics from a communication terminal to a control unit in a mobile communication system comprising the communication terminal, a plurality of base stations and the control unit connected to said plurality of base stations, said communication terminal being in communication with said plurality of base stations during a soft handover, the method being specifically adapted to the control of said plurality of base stations according to one of claims 1 to 18. A method for signaling uplink channel quality characteristics from a communication terminal to a base station in a mobile communication system comprising the communication terminal and a plurality of base stations, said communication terminal being in communication with said plurality of base stations during a soft handover, the method being specifically adapted to the control of said plurality of base stations according to one of claims 19 to 34. The method according to claim 37 or 38, wherein said method comprises the steps of:  The method according to claim 39, wherein determining said channel quality characteristic for each base station comprises combining said power commands received from the respective base station over a configurable time period. A communication terminal in a mobile communication system comprising the communication terminal, a plurality of base stations and a control unit connected to said plurality of base stations, the communication terminal being in communication with said plurality of base stations during a soft handover, wherein said communication terminal comprises means for implementing the method according to one of claims 37 to 40. A mobile communication system comprising a communication terminal according to claim 41, a plurality of base stations and at least one control unit according to claim 36 connected to said plurality of base stations, the communication terminal being in communication with said plurality of base stations during a soft handover, said plurality of base stations comprising at least one base station according to claim 35. A mobile communication system comprising a communication terminal according to claim 41 and a plurality of base stations, the communication terminal being in communication with said plurality of base stations during a soft handover, said plurality of base stations comprising at least one base station according to claim 35. <seperator>EP-1324013-A1<id_sep>sectionHsection groupG01L9slash00group sectionGsection classG01class subgroupG01L9slash06subgroup classH01class subclassG01Lsubclass subclassH01Lsubclass subgroupH01L29slash66subgroup subgroupH01L29slash84subgroup subgroupG01L9slash04subgroup Pressure measuring apparatus To provide a portable pressure measuring apparatus with a pressure sensor of highly accurate output and small electric power consumption. A pressure measuring apparatus of the invention is provided with an impedance bridge circuit (pressure sensor part) for measuring pressure; a drive unit (sensor driving part) for applying voltage to the above impedance bridge circuit; a measuring unit (voltmeter) for sampling and measuring the electric potential difference between the middle points in both arms of the above impedance bridge circuit at a fixed time interval; and a determining unit (control part) for determining whether the difference between the pressure this time and the previous pressure sampled and measured by the above measuring unit reaches a predetermined threshold or below.  The present invention relates to a pressure measuring apparatus, more specifically, to a pressure measuring apparatus using a semiconductor pressure sensor. Traditionally, it has been known that a semiconductor pressure sensor has a property of output variation due to current carrying. This property will be described with the use of Figs. 8 to 10. First, the configuration of a traditional pressure measuring apparatus will be described. Fig. 8 is a schematic circuitry diagram of a traditional pressure measuring apparatus 2. In Fig. 8, the traditional pressure measuring apparatus 2 is configured of a sensor driving part 21, a pressure sensor part 22, and a voltmeter 23. The sensor driving part 21 applies voltage to both ends of the pressure sensor part 22 for driving the pressure sensor part 22. The pressure sensor part 22 is a Wheatstone bridge impedance bridge circuit configured of four impedances. The voltmeter 23 measures the electric potential difference between the middle points in both arms of the impedance bridge circuit and it outputs and displays the measured value as sensor output. Next, with the use of Figs. 9 and 10, the operations of the traditional pressure measuring apparatus will be described. Fig. 9 depicts a diagram illustrating a drive waveform outputted by the sensor driving part 21 for driving the pressure sensor part 22 and measurement sampling indicating timing to measure voltage in the voltmeter 23 in the traditional pressure measuring apparatus 2. As shown in Fig. 9, the drive waveform outputted from the sensor driving part 21 is a step waveform, and the electric potential difference between the middle points in both arms of the pressure sensor part 22 is measured by a predetermined time interval (timing). Fig. 10 depicts a diagram illustrating the sensor output current-carrying property of the pressure sensor part 22 in the traditional pressure measuring apparatus 2. As shown in Fig. 10, the output of the pressure sensor part 22 is formed of a transition period portion that is a fixed period from voltage application by the sensor driving part 21 and a steady period portion after the fixed period. In this manner, the semiconductor pressure sensor has a property of sensor output variation having transit phenomena. On this account, such methods have been used traditionally that voltage is measured a plurality of times from the beginning of measurement sampling and the average value of each measured value is calculated to be the measured value this time, or that voltage is measured predetermined times or is measured predetermined times after a fixed period of time has passed and the average value is taken as the measured value. However, the traditional pressure measuring apparatus 2 has the transition period of pressure variation due to current carrying, and thus it can be considered that pressure is measured at a fixed point (time) from current carrying, but it has had a problem that the initial state is varied in the case of the midway returning from the steady state to the initial state after once pressure has been measured and thus accurate values cannot be measured. A pressure measuring apparatus comprising:  The pressure measuring apparatus according to claim 1, wherein a drive voltage waveform applied by the drive unit is a step waveform. The pressure measuring apparatus according to claim 1, wherein a drive voltage waveform applied by the drive unit is a pulse waveform. A pressure measuring apparatus comprising:  <seperator>EP-1430800-A1<id_sep>classA43class groupA43B5slash00group groupA63B69slash00group classA63class subgroupA43B5slash02subgroup subgroupA43B5slash18subgroup subclassA43Bsubclass subclassA63Bsubclass sectionAsection Article of footwear and detachable cover There is disclosed a detachable ball control skin for use on an article of footwear to improve grip and purchase on a ball. The skin comprises a ball control region having ball control elements disposed thereon. One or more fastening elements are also provided for retaining the skin on the article of footwear.   The present invention relates generally to athletic footwear. More particularly, this invention relates to athletic footwear used in soccer or other sports which require kicking and/or dribbling of a ball with the wearer's feet, and detachable covers for the same.  Soccer shoes are used by a wearer to dribble, kick and pass a ball. In each function, it is beneficial for the wearer to be able to handle and control the ball easily and effectively with the soccer shoe. It is also beneficial to have a soccer shoe that enables the wearer to impart spin and increase power to the ball as it is kicked. Further, a soccer shoe that improves a wearer's ability to control and kick the ball as environmental conditions become adverse, such as when it is cold, wet and/or muddy, is crucial to a wearer's consistent performance. In light of the above, numerous attempts have been made over the years to incorporate into a soccer shoe some type of ball handling surface attached to the shoe upper that provides a wearer with better grip and purchase of a ball. In U.S. Patent No. 3,191,321 to Brutting, rubber projections were inserted through holes in the toe portion and medial and lateral vamp portions of the soccer shoe upper to form a ball control surface. This arrangement attempted to address problems of prior shoes of this type i.e., unsatisfactory shape of projections, construction and method of securing the projections to the upper. Whereas the rubber projections of the shoe of U.S. Patent No. 3,191,321 are such as to perhaps improve ball contact and control, they may have the adverse effect of dampening a wearer's power kick due to the compressibility of the material contacting the ball. The design of the soccer shoe in U.S. Patent No. 5,437,112 to Johnston includes rubber formations applied over flat and/or concave ball contact areas. The effectiveness of the ball contact areas of U.S. Patent No. 5,437,112 is premised on the "squaring-off' of the toe box so that the shoe has increased surface area on the inner medial and lateral shoe vamp. The rubber formations on the ball control surface are comprised of either thinner, flexible rubber to provide flexibility and feel to the wearer for improved dribbling and ball control or of rubber of sufficient thickness to remain stable for power kicking. In order to get both effects in one shoe, it is necessary for a wearer to secure a harder, thicker kicking attachment to a "dribbling" shoe. Thus, the design of the shoe does not readily accommodate a soccer player's need for a soccer shoe that will aid the wearer in dribbling and controlling the ball as well as power kicking and passing the ball. Accordingly, what is needed is a soccer shoe which incorporates a ball control system that includes a means to provide adequate dribbling and controlling features to the wearer and means of applying or increasing power or influence over the ball during kicking and passing. In addition, the ball control system must be integrated into the soccer shoe in such a manner as to not impede a player's speed by being too heavy or cumbersome. A detachable ball control skin for use on an article of footwear to improve grip and purchase on a ball, comprising:  The detachable ball control skin of claim 1 wherein the one or more fastening elements comprise one or more sole strap regions arranged to pass under the sole of the article of footwear. The detachable ball control skin of claim 1 or 2 wherein at least one of the sole strap regions is provided with one or more apertures for location upon a stud or stud fixing of the article of footwear. The detachable ball control skin of any preceding claim wherein the one or more fastening elements comprise a heel strap. The detachable ball control skin of any preceding claim wherein the ball control skin comprises one or more neck regions arranged to stretch upon impact of a ball so as to provide a catapult action. The detachable ball control skin of claim 5 wherein the neck regions are adapted to move independently of the underlying footwear. The detachable ball control skin of claim 5 or 6 wherein the skin is provided with a low friction surface in the vicinity of the neck region for increasing relative movement of the neck region and the underlying footwear. The skin or any preceding claim wherein the ball control region is comprised of a plurality of interrelated layers, one of said layers including a material of a different hardness than another of said layers. The skin of any preceding claim, wherein said ball control region is adapted to cover a substantial portion of an upper of the article of footwear. The skin of any preceding claim, wherein said ball control region comprises a series of geometric protrusions. The skin of claim 10, wherein the geometric protrusions are generally conical. The skin of claim 10, wherein the geometric protrusions are generally pyramidal. The skin of claim 11 or 12, wherein each of the geometric protrusions are of substantially equal dimensions. The skin of claim 11 or 12, wherein the geometric protrusions are of varying dimension. The skin of any of claims 11 to 14, wherein the geometric protrusions are spaced equidistant apart and formed in rows. The skin of any of claims 8 to 15, wherein said plurality of interrelated layers of said ball control region further comprises:  The skin of any of claim 16, wherein said outer layer comprises a soft rubber that deforms easily, said core layer comprises a high tensile metal or plastic, and said inner middle layer comprises a harder rubber than said outer layer. The skin of any of preceding claim wherein the ball control region is comprised of a throat region, a medial region and a lateral region, wherein one of said throat, medial or lateral regions includes a material of a different hardness than another of said regions. The skin of any preceding claim, wherein said ball control region comprises a series of geometric protrusions arranged to form a plurality of ball pockets. The skin of any preceding claim, wherein said geometric protrusions are of varying dimension such that said geometric protrusions which are adjacent said ball pockets are smaller in area than said geometric protrusions about a remainder of said ball control region. The skin of any preceding claim, wherein said geometric protrusions in said throat region are formed from rubber with a Shore hardness of about 50A. The skin of any preceding claim, wherein said geometric protrusions in said medial and lateral regions are formed of rubber with a Shore hardness of about 62A. A detachable ball control skin for use on an article of footwear to improve grip and purchase on a ball substantially as herein described with reference to the accompanying drawings. An article of footwear comprising a non-detachable ball control skin having the features of any preceding claim. An article of footwear to provide grip and purchase on a ball comprising:  The article of footwear of claim 25, wherein said ball control region covers a substantial portion of said upper. The article of footwear of claim 25 or 26, wherein said ball control region comprises a series of geometric protrusions. The article of footwear of claim 27, wherein the geometric protrusions are generally conical. The article of footwear of claim 27, wherein the geometric protrusions are generally pyramidal. The article of footwear of any of claims 27 to 29, wherein each of the geometric protrusions are of substantially equal dimensions. The article of footwear of any of claims 27 to 29, wherein the geometric protrusions are of varying dimension. The article of footwear of any of claims 27 to 31, wherein the geometric protrusions are spaced equidistant apart and formed in rows. The article of footwear of any of claims 25 to 32, wherein said plurality of interrelated layers of said ball control region further comprises:  The article of footwear of claim 33, wherein said outer layer comprises a soft rubber that deforms easily, said core layer comprises a high tensile metal or plastic, and said inner middle layer comprises a harder rubber than said outer layer. An article of footwear to provide grip and purchase on a ball comprising:  The article of footwear of claim 35, wherein said ball control region covers a substantial portion of said upper. The article of footwear of claim 35 or 36, wherein said ball control region comprises a series of geometric protrusions arranged to form a plurality of ball pockets. The article of footwear of any of claims 35 to 37, wherein said geometric protrusions are generally conical. The article of footwear of any of claims 25 to 38, wherein said geometric protrusions are of varying dimension such that said geometric protrusions which are adjacent said ball pockets are smaller in area than said geometric protrusions about a remainder of said ball control region. The article of footwear of any of claims 35 to 39, wherein said geometric protrusions in said throat region are formed from rubber with a Shore hardness of about 50A . The article of footwear of any of claims 35 to 39, wherein said geometric protrusions in said medial and lateral regions are formed of rubber with a Shore hardness of about 62A. An article of footwear according to any of claims 25 to 34, further comprising the features of any of claims 35 to 41. An article of footwear substantially as herein described with reference to the accompanying drawings. <seperator>EP-1348843-A2<id_sep>subgroupB01D53slash94subgroup subclassB01Jsubclass sectionBsection subclassB01Dsubclass groupB01J35slash00group classB01class sectionFsection subgroupB01J35slash04subgroup subgroupF01N3slash28subgroup subgroupF01N3slash022subgroup subclassF01Nsubclass classF01class Ceramic honeycomb filter and exhaust gas-cleaning method A ceramic honeycomb filter comprising a ceramic honeycomb structure having porous partition walls defining a plurality of flow paths, and plugs disposed inside the flow paths such that an exhaust gas passes through pores of the porous partition walls, thereby removing particulates from the exhaust gas; a catalyst being carried at least partially on the partition walls and/or the plugs; and at least one of plugs on the side of exhaust gas inlets being disposed at a position separate from the inlet-side opening ends of the flow paths. Particulates are removed from the exhaust gas by injecting unburned fuel and/or hydrocarbon in a gaseous state upstream of the inlet-side plugs to maintain at least part of the inlet-side plugs and their downstream regions at a temperature substantially equal to or higher than the lowest activation temperature of the catalyst.  The present invention relates to a ceramic honeycomb filter suitable for an exhaust gas-cleaning apparatus for an automobile engine, particularly for a cleaning apparatus for removing particulates from an exhaust gas from a diesel engine, and an exhaust gas-cleaning method using such a ceramic honeycomb filter. Recently, ceramic honeycomb filters comprising ceramic honeycomb structures with a plurality of flow paths sealed alternately at both ends have been finding applications in removing particulates containing carbon as a main component from exhaust gases from diesel engines. As shown in Figs. 3 and 4, a porous ceramic honeycomb filter 1, which is usually substantially cylindrical or elliptical, comprises (a) a porous ceramic honeycomb structure 10 comprising an outer wall 20, and porous partition walls 30 disposed inside the outer wall 20, with a large number of flow paths 40 encircled by the outer wall 20 and the porous partition walls 30 or by the adjacent porous partition walls 30, and (b) plugs 50, 52 for alternately sealing the inlet-side opening ends 12 and the outlet-side opening ends 13 of the flow paths 40. An exhaust gas-cleaning mechanism in the honeycomb filter 1 is shown in Fig. 4. Because the plugs 52 are disposed at the outlet-side opening ends 13 of the flow paths 40, an exhaust gas (shown by the black arrow 90) flowing into flow paths 41 open at the inlet-side opening end 12 of the honeycomb filter 1 passes through the pores of the partition walls 30, and is discharged from flow paths 43 open at the adjacent outlet-side opening end 13 (shown by the white arrow 92). At this time, particulates contained in the exhaust gas are captured in the pores of the partition walls 30, resulting in the cleaning of the exhaust gas. When particulates captured in the pores exceed a predetermined amount, the clogging of the pores takes place, causing the pressure loss of the honeycomb filter 1 to increase and thus resulting in decrease in an engine output. When the pores are clogged, the supply of an exhaust gas to the honeycomb filter 1 is stopped, and the captured particulates are burned by a burner or an electric heater to regenerate the honeycomb filter 1. In a case where particulates are burned and removed by a burner or an electric heater, the larger the amount of particulates captured, the more difficult it is to uniformly control the temperature in the honeycomb filter 1. Particularly in portions in which particulates are accumulated in a high concentration, the temperature of the honeycomb filter 1 is likely elevated, the honeycomb filter 1 is highly likely to be broken by thermal stress generated by the burning of particulates. In some cases, the temperature of the honeycomb filter 1 is elevated to the melting point of a ceramic material forming the partition walls 30 or higher, so that the partition walls 30 are broken or melted. On the other hand, if the highest temperature of the honeycomb filter 1 were suppressed to avoid breakage and melting, the regenerated honeycomb filter 1 would fail to have sufficiently low pressure loss because of the cinders of particulates. A ceramic honeycomb filter comprising a ceramic honeycomb structure having porous partition walls defining a plurality of flow paths, and plugs disposed inside said flow paths such that an exhaust gas passes through pores of said porous partition walls, thereby removing particulates from said exhaust gas; a catalyst being carried at least partially on said partition walls and/or said plugs; and at least one of plugs on the side of exhaust gas inlets being disposed at a position separate from the inlet-side opening ends of said flow paths. The ceramic honeycomb filter according to claim 1, wherein said exhaust gas passes through at least pores of porous partition walls existing between the inlet-side opening ends of said flow paths and plugs separate therefrom. The ceramic honeycomb filter according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the front end surfaces of said inlet-side plugs are positioned such that a catalyst carried at least partially on said inlet-side plugs is kept at its lowest activation temperature or higher during the operation of an internal combustion engine. The ceramic honeycomb filter according to any one of claims 1-3, wherein the front end surfaces of said inlet-side plugs are positioned in a region of 0.7 times the entire length of said ceramic honeycomb filter or less from the inlet-side opening end of said ceramic honeycomb filter. The ceramic honeycomb filter according to any one of claims 1-4, wherein said catalyst comprises at least a platinum-group metal. The ceramic honeycomb filter according to any one of claims 1-5, wherein a catalyst carried on partition wall portions on the side of the exhaust gas inlet is higher in activity than a catalyst carried on partition wall portions on the side of the exhaust gas outlet. A method for removing particulates from an exhaust gas by a ceramic honeycomb filter, which comprises a ceramic honeycomb structure having porous partition walls defining a plurality of flow paths, and plugs disposed inside said flow paths such that an exhaust gas passes through pores of said porous partition walls, a catalyst being carried at least partially on said partition walls and/or said plugs, and at least one of plugs on the side of an exhaust gas inlet being disposed at a downstream position separate from the inlet-side opening ends of said flow paths; said method comprising injecting unburned fuel and/or hydrocarbon in a gaseous state upstream of said inlet-side plugs to maintain at least part of said inlet-side plugs and their downstream regions at a temperature substantially equal to or higher than the lowest activation temperature of said catalyst. <seperator>EP-1439605-A1<id_sep>subclassH01Qsubclass sectionHsection subgroupH01Q9slash42subgroup classH01class subgroupH01Q1slash32subgroup subgroupH01Q9slash04subgroup subgroupH01Q1slash38subgroup Small size antenna with lowered hight The antenna of the present invention comprises flat-plate ground plane 1, first antenna element 13 with one end 13a connected to feeding point 2 and intermediate portion 13b folded by a plurality of times, which is extended upward from the ground plane 1, and second antenna element 23 with one end 23a connected to the other end 13c of the first antenna element 13, with intermediate portion 23b formed in symmetrical relation to the first antenna element 13, and also, with the other end 23c connected to the ground plane 1. Thus, it is possible to obtain a small size antenna with the antenna element lowered in height.  BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION FIELD OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to an antenna used for mobile radio equipment to be mounted on a vehicle or the like. DESCRIPTION OF THE RELATED ART Recently, a linear mono-pole antenna or a folded mono-pole antenna is generally employed as an antenna for mobile radio equipment to be mounted on a vehicle. Such a conventional antenna will be described in the following with reference to Fig. 11. Fig. 11 (a) is a side view of a conventional mono-pole antenna. The conventional mono-pole antenna comprises a flat-plate conductive ground plane 91 made from copper material or the like, a feeding point 92 positioned at the center of the ground plane 91, and an antenna element 93 made from linear copper material or the like. The antenna element 93, with one end connected to the feeding point 92 and the other end opened, is vertically extended by height h against the ground plane 91. The mono-pole antenna is configured in this way. Also, Fig. 11 (b) is a side view of a conventional folded mono-pole antenna. The conventional folded mono-pole antenna has an antenna element 103 made from linear copper material or the like which is folded in U-shape. The antenna element 103, with one end connected to the feeding point 92, is vertically extended by height h against the ground plane 91, and its upper part is folded in U-shape, while the other end is connected to the ground plane 91. The folded mono-pole antenna is configured in this way. In any of the antennas configured as described above, when high-frequency current of operating frequency is supplied to the feeding point 92, the antenna elements 93, 103 are excited to perform signal transmitting operation. Also, in signal reception, the antenna elements 93, 103 are excited by the high-frequency electromagnetic field of operating frequency to perform signal receiving operation. The mono-pole antenna is formed so that one end of the antenna element 93 is connected to the feeding point 92 and the other end thereof is opened. Therefore, current (i1) across a - b and image current (i1) equivalent to across a - b flow in same phase to the ground plane 91. The mono-pole antenna is excited in this way, and then electromagnetic waves are emitted into the air. On the other hand, the folded mono-pole antenna is formed so that the antenna element 103 is folded in U-shape. Therefore, in addition to current (i1) across a - b and current (i3) across c - d, image current (i1, i3) equivalent to across a - b and across c - d flows in same phase to the ground plane 91. Since the folded mono-antenna is enhanced in excitation by using such a configuration, the band width of the antenna can be expanded. As preceding technical document information regarding the invention of this application, for example, Japanese Laid-open Patent S62-122401 is well known. However, as in a conventional mono-pole antenna and a folded mono-pole antenna described above, the antenna is generally operated in a 1/4 wavelength mode. Therefore, the mechanical height h is required to be at least 1/4 wavelength of operating frequency. For example, in the case of 900MHz band used for cellular phones, the height required is at least 83mm that is equivalent to 1/4 wavelength thereof. An antenna, comprising:  The antenna of claim 1,    wherein the intermediate portion of said first antenna element and the intermediate portion of said second antenna element are arranged symmetrically opposed to each other. The antenna of claim 2,    wherein the other end of said first antenna element and one end of said second antenna element are connected to each other via a conductive plate. The antenna of claim 2,    wherein said first antenna element and said second antenna element are formed in plate-like shape. The antenna of claim 2, further comprising: The antenna of claim 5, further comprising:  The antenna of claim 6,    wherein said first antenna element and said second antenna element are formed of metal plates which are integral with said conductive plate. The antenna of claim 5, further comprising:  The antenna of claim 1,    wherein the intermediate portion of said first antenna element and the intermediate portion of said second antenna element are arranged in symmetrical relation with each other on same plain surface. The antenna of claim 9, further comprising:  <seperator>EP-1450342-A1<id_sep>subgroupG09G3slash20subgroup classG09class subclassG09Gsubclass sectionGsection subgroupG09G3slash32subgroup SIGNAL LINE DRIVE CIRCUIT, LIGHT EMITTING DEVICE, AND ITS DRIVE METHOD Variation occurs in transistor characteristics. The present invention relates to a signal line driver circuit comprising a plurality of current source circuits respectively corresponding to a plurality of wirings, characterized in that: the plurality of current source circuits each comprise capacitor means and supply means; and the plurality of current source circuits each convert a supplied current into a voltage in accordance with a video signal, and supply a current corresponding to the converted voltage.  The present invention relates to a technique of a signal line driver circuit. Further, the present invention relates to a light emitting device including the signal line driver circuit. Recently, display devices for performing image display are being developed. Liquid crystal display devices that perform image display by using a liquid crystal element are widely used as display devices because of advantages of high image quality, thinness, lightweight, and the like. In addition, light emitting devices using self-light emitting elements as light emitting elements are recently being developed. The light emitting device has characteristics of, for example, a high response speed suitable for motion image display, low voltage, and low power consumption, in addition to advantages of existing liquid crystal display devices, and thus, attracts a great deal of attention as the next generation display device. As gradation representation methods used in displaying a multi-gradation image on a light emitting device, an analog gradation method and a digital gradation method are given. The former analog gradation method is a method in which the gradation is obtained by analogously controlling the magnitude of a current that flows to a light emitting element. The latter digital gradation method is a method in which the light emitting element is driven only in two states thereof: an ON state (state where the luminance is substantially 100%) and an OFF state (state where the luminance is substantially 0%). In the digital gradation method, since only two gradations can be displayed, a method configured by combining the digital gradation method and a different method to display multi-gradation images has been proposed. When classification is made based on the type of a signal that is input to pixels, a voltage input method and a current input method are given as pixel-driving methods. The former voltage input method is a method in which: a video signal (voltage) that is input to a pixel is input to a gate electrode of a driving element; and the driving element is used to control the luminance of a light emitting element. The latter current input method is a method in which the set signal current is flown to a light emitting element to control the luminance of the light emitting element. Hereinafter, referring to FIG. 16(A), a brief description will be made of an example of a circuit of a pixel in a light emitting device employing the voltage input method and a driving method thereof. The pixel shown in FIG. 16(A) includes a signal line 501, a scanning line 502, a switching TFT 503, a driving TFT 504, a capacitor element 505, a light emitting element 506, and power sources 507 and 508. When the potential of the scanning line 502 varies, and the switching TFT 503 is turned ON, a video signal that has been input to the signal line 501 is input to a gate electrode of the driving TFT 504. According to the potential of the input video signal, a gate-source voltage of the driving TFT 504 is determined, and a current flowing between the source and the drain of the driving TFT 504 is determined. This current is supplied to the light emitting element 506, and the light emitting element 506 emits light. As a semiconductor device for driving the light emitting element, a polysilicon transistor is used. However, the polysilicon transistor is prone to variation in electrical characteristics, such as a threshold value and an ON current, due to defects in a grain boundary. In the pixel shown in FIG. 16(A), if characteristics of the driving TFT 504 vary in units of the pixel, even when identical video signals have been input, the magnitudes of the corresponding drain currents of the driving TFTs 504 are different. Thus, the luminance of the light emitting element 506 varies. A signal line driver circuit comprising a plurality of current source circuits corresponding to a plurality of wirings, characterized in that:  A signal line driver circuit comprising a plurality of current source circuits corresponding to a plurality of wirings, characterized in that:  A signal line driver circuit comprising a plurality of current source circuits corresponding to a plurality of wirings, characterized in that:  A signal line driver circuit according to claim 3, characterized in that:  A signal line driver circuit according to claim 3, characterized in that the n current source circuits are connected to one reference constant current source corresponding to the most significant bit. A signal line driver circuit according to any one of claims 1 to 3, characterized in that the plurality of wirings is either a plurality of signal lines or a plurality of current lines. A signal line driver circuit according to any one of claims 1 to 3, characterized in that, when a drain and a gate of a transistor of the supply means are in a short-circuited state, a voltage generated between the gate and source is retained by the supplied current. A signal line driver circuit according to any one of claims 1 to 3, characterized in that the supply means comprises a transistor, a first switch for controlling conductivity between a gate and a drain of the transistor, a second switch for controlling conductivity between a reference constant current source and the gate of the transistor, and a third switch for controlling conductivity between the drain of the transistor and a pixel. A signal line driver circuit according to any one of claims 1 to 3, characterized in that, when drains and gates of both first and second transistors of the supply means are in a short-circuited state, the capacitor means retains a voltage generated between the gate and source of the first or second transistor by the supplied current. A signal line driver circuit according to any one of claims 1 to 3,characterized in that the supply means comprises a current mirror circuit constituted of first and second transistors, a first switch for controlling conductivity between gates and sources of the first and second transistors, and a second switch for controlling conductivity between a reference constant current source and the gates of the first and second transistors. A signal line driver circuit according to any one of claims 1 to 3, characterized in that, when a drain and a gate of one of first and second transistors of the supply means are in a short-circuited state, a voltage generated between the gate and source is retained by the supplied current. A signal line driver circuit according to any one of claims 1 to 3, characterized in that the supply means comprises:  A signal line driver circuit according to any one of claims 10 to 12, characterized in that gate widths/gate lengths of both the first and second transistors are set to identical values. A signal line driver circuit according to any one of claims 10 to 12, characterized in that gate width/gate length of the first transistor is set to a value larger than gate width/gate length of the second transistor. A signal line driver circuit according to any one of claims 1 to 3, characterized in that:  A signal line driver circuit according to any one of claims 1 to 3, characterized in that:  A signal line driver circuit according to any one of claims 1 to 3, characterized in that a transistor constituting the supply means operates in a saturation region. A signal line driver circuit according to any one of claims 1 to 3, characterized in that an active layer of a transistor constituting the current source circuit is formed of polysilicon. A light emitting device characterized by comprising:  A method of driving a light emitting device which is provided with: a pixel portion in which a plurality of scanning lines, a plurality of wirings, and a plurality of pixels are disposed in matrix; and a signal line driver circuit comprising a plurality of current source circuits respectively corresponding to the plurality of wirings, the plurality of pixels each comprising a light emitting element, a driving transistor, and a capacitor element for retaining a gate-source voltage of the driving transistor, characterized in that:  A method of driving a light emitting device which is provided with: a pixel portion in which a plurality of scanning lines, a plurality of wirings, and a plurality of pixels are disposed in matrix; and a signal line driver circuit comprising a plurality of current source circuits respectively corresponding to the plurality of wirings, the plurality of pixels each comprising a light emitting element, a driving transistor, and a capacitor element for retaining a gate-source voltage of the driving transistor, characterized in that:  A method of driving a light emitting device which is provided with: a pixel portion in which a plurality of scanning lines, a plurality of wirings, and a plurality of pixels are disposed in matrix; and a signal line driver circuit comprising a plurality of current source circuits respectively corresponding to the plurality of wirings, the plurality of pixels each comprising a light emitting element, a current source circuit, and a switch for controlling conductivity between the light emitting element and the current source circuit, characterized in that:  A method of driving a light emitting device which is provided with: a pixel portion in which a plurality of scanning lines, a plurality of wirings, and a plurality of pixels are disposed in matrix; and a signal line driver circuit comprising a plurality of current source circuits respectively corresponding to the plurality of wirings, the plurality of pixels each comprising a light emitting element, a current source circuit, and a switch for controlling conductivity between the light emitting element and the current source circuit, characterized in that:  A method of driving a light emitting device according to claim 23, characterized in that the first and second setting operation periods are partly overlap with each other. A method of driving a light emitting device which is provided with: a pixel portion in which a plurality of scanning lines, a plurality of wirings, and a plurality of pixels are disposed in matrix; and a signal line driver circuit comprising a plurality of current source circuits respectively corresponding to the plurality of wirings; the plurality of pixels each comprising a light emitting element, characterized in that:  A method of driving a light emitting device which is provided with: a pixel portion in which a plurality of scanning lines, a plurality of wirings, and a plurality of pixels are disposed in matrix; and a signal line driver circuit comprising a plurality of current source circuits respectively corresponding to the plurality of wirings; the plurality of pixels each comprising a light emitting element, characterized in that:  A method of driving a light emitting device according to any one of claims 20 to 26, characterized in that the pixel portion performs line-sequential drive or dot-sequential drive. A method of driving a light emitting device according to any one of claims 20 to 26, characterized in that the plurality of wirings is a plurality of signal lines or a plurality of current lines. Amended claims under Art. 19.1 PCT 1. (Amended) A signal line driver circuit comprising a plurality of current source circuits corresponding to a plurality of wirings, characterized in that:  2. (Amended) A signal line driver circuit comprising a plurality of current source circuits corresponding to a plurality of wirings, characterized in that:  3. (Amended) A signal line driver circuit comprising a plurality of current source circuits corresponding to a plurality of wirings, characterized in that:  4. (Amended) A signal line driver circuit according to claim 3, characterized in that:  5. A signal line driver circuit according to claim 3, characterized in that the n current source circuits are connected to one reference constant current source corresponding to the most significant bit. 6. A signal line driver circuit according to any one of claims 1 to 3, characterized in that the plurality of wirings is either a plurality of signal lines or a plurality of current lines. 7. A signal line driver circuit according to any one of claims 1 to 3, characterized in that, when a drain and a gate of a transistor of the supply means are in a short-circuited state, a voltage generated between the gate and source is retained by the supplied current. 8. A signal line driver circuit according to any one of claims 1 to 3, characterized in that the supply means comprises a transistor, a first switch for controlling conductivity between a gate and a drain of the transistor, a second switch for controlling conductivity between a reference constant current source and the gate of the transistor, and a third switch for controlling conductivity between the drain of the transistor and a pixel. 9. A signal line driver circuit according to any one of claims 1 to 3, characterized in that, when drains and gates of both first and second transistors of the supply means are in a short-circuited state, the capacitor means retains a voltage generated between the gate and source of the first or second transistor by the supplied current. 10. A signal line driver circuit according to any one of claims 1 to 3, characterized in that the supply means comprises a current mirror circuit constituted of first and second transistors, a first switch for controlling conductivity between gates and sources of the first and second transistors, and a second switch for controlling conductivity between a reference constant current source and the gates of the first and second transistors. 11. A signal line driver circuit according to any one of claims 1 to 3, characterized in that, when a drain and a gate of one of first and second transistors of the supply means are in a short-circuited state, a voltage generated between the gate and source is retained by the supplied current. 12. A signal line driver circuit according to any one of claims 1 to 3, characterized in that the supply means comprises:  13. A signal line driver circuit according to any one of claims 10 to 12, characterized in that gate widths/gate lengths of both the first and second transistors are set to identical values. 14. A signal line driver circuit according to any one of claims 10 to 12, characterized in that gate width/gate length of the first transistor is set to a value larger than gate width/gate length of the second transistor. 15. A signal line driver circuit according to any one of claims 1 to 3, characterized in that:  16. (Amended) A signal line driver circuit according to any one of claims 1 to 3, characterized in that:  17. A signal line driver circuit according to any one of claims 1 to 3, characterized in that a transistor constituting the supply means operates in a saturation region. 18. A signal line driver circuit according to any one of claims 1 to 3, characterized in that an active layer of a transistor constituting the current source circuit is formed of polysilicon. 19. A light emitting device characterized by comprising: 20. (Amended) A method of driving a light emitting device which is provided with: a pixel portion in which a plurality of scanning lines, a plurality of wirings, and a plurality of pixels are disposed in matrix; and a signal line driver circuit comprising a plurality of current source circuits respectively corresponding to the plurality of wirings, the plurality of pixels each comprising a light emitting element, a driving transistor, and a capacitor element for retaining a gate-source voltage of the driving transistor, characterized in that:  21. (Amended) A method of driving a light emitting device which is provided with: a pixel portion in which a plurality of scanning lines, a plurality of wirings, and a plurality of pixels are disposed in matrix; and a signal line driver circuit comprising a plurality of current source circuits respectively corresponding to the plurality of wirings, the plurality of pixels each comprising a light emitting element, a driving transistor, and a capacitor element for retaining a gate-source voltage of the driving transistor, characterized in that:  22. (Amended) A method of driving a light emitting device which is provided with: a pixel portion in which a plurality of scanning lines, a plurality of wirings, and a plurality of pixels are disposed in matrix; and a signal line driver circuit comprising a plurality of current source circuits respectively corresponding to the plurality of wirings, the plurality of pixels each comprising a light emitting element, a current source circuit, and a switch for controlling conductivity between the light emitting element and the current source circuit, characterized in that:  23. (Amended) A method of driving a light emitting device which is provided with: a pixel portion in which a plurality of scanning lines, a plurality of wirings, and a plurality of pixels are disposed in matrix; and a signal line driver circuit comprising a plurality of current source circuits respectively corresponding to the plurality of wirings, the plurality of pixels each comprising a light emitting element, a current source circuit, and a switch for controlling conductivity between the light emitting element and the current source circuit, characterized in that:  24. (Amended) A method of driving a light emitting device according to claim 23, characterized in that the setting period, and the first and second setting operation periods partly overlap with each other. 25. (Amended) A method of driving a light emitting device which is provided with: a pixel portion in which a plurality of scanning lines, a plurality of wirings, and a plurality of pixels are disposed in matrix; and a signal line driver circuit comprising a plurality of current source circuits respectively corresponding to the plurality of wirings; the plurality of pixels each comprising a light emitting element, characterized in that:  26. (Amended) A method of driving a light emitting device which is provided with: a pixel portion in which a plurality of scanning lines, a plurality of wirings, and a plurality of pixels are disposed in matrix; and a signal line driver circuit comprising a plurality of current source circuits respectively corresponding to the plurality of wirings; the plurality of pixels each comprising a light emitting element, characterized in that:  27. A method of driving a light emitting device according to any one of claims 20 to 26, characterized in that the pixel portion performs line-sequential drive or dot-sequential drive. 28. A method of driving a light emitting device according to any one of claims 20 to 26, characterized in that the plurality of wirings is a plurality of signal lines or a plurality of current lines. 29. (New) A signal line driver circuit according to any one of claims 1 to 19, characterized in that a switch is provided in each of the plurality of wirings, and the switch switches on and off of the current corresponding to the converted voltage. 30. (New) A signal line driver circuit according to claim 29, characterized in that the on and off of the current corresponding to the converted voltage is performed by a video signal. 31. (New) A method of driving a light emitting device according to any one of claims 20 to 26, characterized in that a switch is provided in each of the plurality of wirings, and the switch switches on and off of the current corresponding to the converted voltage. 32. (New) A method of driving a light emitting device according to claim 31, characterized in that the on and off of the current corresponding to the converted voltage is performed by a video signal. <seperator>EP-1288800-A2<id_sep>classH04class sectionHsection subgroupG06F17slash30subgroup sectionGsection subclassG06Fsubclass classG06class subclassH04Msubclass subgroupH04M3slash42subgroup Split browser A browser for provision of web services to phone sets connected to PBXs or switches. The browser interfaces with the switches to provide content for the displays of the phone sets and to receive inputs from users for web sessions. Session support is provided in both the browser and the switches for coordination of web sessions along with telephony sessions on each of the phone sets.  Field of Invention This invention relates to browsers and in particular to a browser for providing web services to phone sets or communication devices connected to private branch exchanges (PBXs) or switches. Background of the Invention A significant number of phone sets in use and in production are wireline stimulus phones, where the control of call processing and device display reside on the switches and not on the phones. In this environment, it is very difficult for application developers to develop features that can control the display on stimulus phone sets. Generally, the developers must possess the knowledge and have access to the switches to embed their applications. This is time-consuming and it is not conducive to fast development and deployment of applications. It is also difficult or impossible for developers to reuse their code across multiple platforms. This situation is also problematic for switch vendors. Multiple services are desirable for deployment on PBX systems to satisfy customer needs. However, if the developers are required to have knowledge of and access to the switches, then it is unlikely that multiple applications can be deployed quickly or cost effectively. Furthermore, stimulus phone set users are generally only provided with a fixed set of features to personalize their phone sets. There is a lack of applications available for such users. It would be advantageous to provide users with the ability to customize their phone sets for the applications that they find useful in addition to call control and messaging services. The applications most readily available are the vast and rapidly increasing number of services available on intranets and the Internet. Currently, web access is not available using a stimulus phone set. An approach to providing web access is to incorporate browsers in the phone sets and wireless devices. This is exemplified by the development of Wireless Application Protocol (WAP) for wireless devices. However, PBX networks do not have the same security and bandwidth limitations as wireless networks, it is inefficient and unnecessary to have wireless transport or encryption layers of WAP taking up valuable resources on stimulus phone sets. Further, a stripped WAP browser may still have problems on stimulus phone sets which have very limited resources. A further problem with putting browsers on stimulus phone sets is that the call processing and display functions reside on the switches. Browsers require these control features to operate properly. It is very difficult for browsers to access these control features from the phone sets. To enable installation of a browser, major changes are required to the switch-device relationship between the stimulus phone sets and their switches. It is therefore desirable to provide browser functions to stimulus phone sets, which address the shortcomings of providing browser functions as noted above. Summary of the Invention According to an aspect of the invention, there is provided a browser for provision of web services to phone sets connected to PBXs or switches. The browser interfaces with the switches to provide content for the displays of the phone sets and to receive inputs from users for web sessions. Session support is provided in both the browser and the switches for coordination of web sessions along with telephony sessions on each of the phone sets. A browser for facilitating web sessions with web sites on a plurality of communication devices connected to a switch, the switch managing session state and content of each of the web sessions with the communication devices, where each of the web sessions is associated with an identifier; the browser comprising:  The browser of claim 1, wherein the identifiers are device identifiers. The browser of claim 1, where the communications to the web sites includes getting content for the web sessions. A browser for facilitating web sessions with web sites on a plurality of communication devices connected to a switch, the browser comprising    session records for tracking said communication devices by associating respective ones of said web sessions with respective ones of said communication devices, wherein each of said session records also includes a session state and content of a respective web session;    a switch adaptor for exchanging messages with the switch, wherein each of the messages contains an association with at least one of said session records and one of said communication devices;    a message processor for forwarding the messages according the association contained in each of the messages;    parsers for exchanging communications with the web sites.    session handlers for processing each of the messages and the communications according to the session state and content of the respective session records and accordingly, generating at least one response, the response comprises at least one of a message and a communication; wherein each of the session records has a respective session handler and each of the session handlers has a respective parser. The browser of claim 4, wherein the association are device identifiers. The browser of claim 4, wherein the communications to the web sites include requests for WML decks. The browser of claim 6, wherein the web sessions are WAP web sessions. A switch for facilitating a browser to provide web sessions between web a plurality of communication devices connected to the switch and web sites; the switch comprising:  The switch of claim 8, wherein the web support manages presentation of parsed and interpreted pages on the communication devices. The switch of claim 9, wherein the web sessions are WAP sessions and the pages are WML decks. <seperator>EP-1724001-A2<id_sep>subclassB01Jsubclass subgroupB01F3slash08subgroup groupB01L3slash00group sectionBsection subclassB01Lsubclass groupB01J19slash00group classB01class sectionGsection classG01class groupB01F13slash00group subclassG01Nsubclass subgroupG01N1slash38subgroup subclassB01Fsubclass Liquid/liquid interface reaction equipment The invention provides an equipment capable of suppressing abrupt changes in flow rate or flow direction in joining different kinds of liquids by making an angle for intersection of different individual channels as small as possible, in case of making different individual channels to intersect and join and forming a laminar flow of liquid/liquid interface in a combined channel to react different kinds of liquids. Grooves are formed at the front face and back face of a substrate 10 to form two individual channels 24, 26, two grooves are intersected on the way, and the individual channels are joined in thickness direction of the substrate 10 to form a combined channel 28. Different kinds of liquids flow in the individual channels 24, 26, both liquids are joined to form a liquid/liquid interface of two-layer flow in the combined channel, and two kinds of liquids are reacted at the liquid/liquid interface.  The present invention relates to a liquid/liquid interface reaction equipment in which two kinds of liquids are made to flow at a minute flow rate, the flows of these liquids are made to come together to form a liquid/liquid interface of two-layer flow, and two kinds of liquids are made to react at this liquid/liquid interface. This liquid/liquid interface reaction equipment is used in synthesis of, e.g., chemicals, cosmetics, chemical seasonings, and paints. In this type of liquid/liquid interface reaction equipment, two kinds of liquids are made to flow individually in two minute liquid channels at minute flow rates respectively, and these two liquid channels are made to intersect on the way, causing two liquid flows to come together on the downstream side, whereby a liquid/liquid interface of two-layer flow is formed in a combined channel, and two kinds of liquid are made to react at this liquid/liquid interface. Such equipment, as disclosed in, for example, the As disclosed in the conventional liquid/liquid interface reaction equipment, in such a structure that two grooves are formed at the surface of a substrate to be liquid channels, as well as these two grooves are intersected in a planar manner at the substrate surface to join into one groove, forming a combined channel, an angle at which two liquid channels are intersected comes to be larger. Therefore, a problem exits in that abrupt changes in flow rate or in flow direction are made when two kinds of liquid are joined, whereby solids are produced due to these changes, and clogging in the channels occurs. Such problems are especially significant at the time of being kicked out of the experimental stage into the industrialization (mass production) stage. The present invention was made in view of the above-described situations, and has an object of providing a liquid/liquid interface reaction equipment with which in the case where different individual channels are made to intersect to join and a laminar flow of liquid/liquid interface is formed in this combined channel to make the reaction of different kinds of liquids, by making an angle at which different individual channels are intersected as small as possible, it is possible to suppress abrupt changes in flow rate or in flow direction when different kinds of liquids are joined, and to prevent the production of solids and thus the occurrence of clogging in the channels. The invention as defined in claim 1 is a liquid/liquid interface reaction equipment in which different kinds of liquids are made to flow in different individual channels respectively, the mentioned different individual channels are met each other on the way to form a liquid/liquid interface of laminar flow in a combined channel, and the mentioned different kinds of liquids are reacted with each other at this liquid/liquid interface; the liquid/liquid interface reaction equipment being characterized in that there are formed grooves at the front face and the back face of a substrate respectively, and these grooves form the mentioned different individual channels; and that the sum of depth dimensions of each of the mentioned grooves that are formed at the front face and at the back face of the substrate respectively is made larger than a thickness dimension of the substrate; as well as these grooves are intersected in plan view to cause the mentioned different individual channels to meet each other in thickness direction of the substrate. A liquid/liquid interface reaction equipment in which different kinds of liquids are made to flow in different individual channels (24), (26) respectively, said different individual channels (24), (26) are met each other on the way to form a liquid/liquid interface (S) of laminar flow in a combined channel (28), and said different kinds of liquids are reacted with each other at said liquid/liquid interface (S);  A liquid/liquid interface reaction equipment in which different kinds of liquids are made to flow in different individual channels (76), (78) respectively, said different individual channels (76), (78) are met each other on the way to form a liquid/liquid interface (S) of laminar flow in a combined channel (10), and said different kinds of liquids are reacted with each other at said liquid/liquid interface (S);  The liquid/liquid interface reaction equipment according to claim 1 or 2,  The liquid/liquid interface reaction equipment according to claim 3,  The liquid/liquid interface reaction equipment according to claim 3,  A liquid/liquid interface reaction equipment in which different kinds of liquids are made to flow in different individual channels (24, 76), (26, 78) respectively, said different individual channels (24, 76), (26, 78) are met each other on the way to form a liquid/liquid interface (S) of laminar flow in a combined channel (28, 80), and said different kinds of liquids are reacted with each other at said liquid/liquid interface (S);  The liquid/liquid interface reaction equipment according to claim 6,  The liquid/liquid interface reaction equipment according to claim 7,  The liquid/liquid interface reaction equipment according to claim 6,  A liquid/liquid interface reaction equipment in which different kinds of liquids are made to flow in different individual channels (84), (86) respectively, said different individual channels (84), (86) are met each other on the way to form a liquid/liquid interface (S) of laminar flow in a combined channel (88), and said different kinds of liquids are reacted with each other at said liquid/liquid interface (88);  The liquid/liquid interface reaction equipment according to any one of claims 1 through 10,  <seperator>EP-1522233-A2<id_sep>subgroupA61K8slash30subgroup subgroupA61K8slash35subgroup subclassA61Ksubclass classA61class subclassA61Qsubclass classA45class subgroupA61K8slash72subgroup subclassA45Dsubclass groupA61Q13slash00group subgroupA61K8slash37subgroup subgroupA61K8slash36subgroup subgroupA45D40slash02subgroup sectionAsection subgroupA45D40slash04subgroup subgroupA61K8slash88subgroup Polyamide stick dispensing product and method of use Described for the purpose of application to an inanimate laminar substantially solid surface is a substantially hydrocarbon-free functional substance-providing stick article having consistently-maintained functional composition integrity comprising a stiff, substantially monophasic, thermally-reversible hydrocarbon-free composition consisting essentially of a mixture of:   Ester-terminated and tertiary amide-terminated polyamide stick articles which are substantially hydrocarbon-free and which contain high concentrations of functional substances, such as fragrances and air freshener compositions. The articles are useful for providing the functional substances to a surface by means of rubbing the stick article onto the surface.  The prior art contains several references to functional substance-providing stick articles, for example (a) tertiary amide-terminated polyamide polyglyceryl-2 polyhydroxystearate pigment-containing sticks for lipstick applicators described in U.S. Patent 6,469,131; (b) tertiary amide-terminated polyamide-salicylic acid octyl monoester-linoleic acid isostearyl monoester-mineral oil sunblock stick articles containing 0.60% fragrance described in Example 7 of U.S. Patent 6,592,857; and (c) ester-terminated polyamide-mineral oil-functional ingredient stick applicators including fragrance and insect repellent applicators as described in U.S. Patent 6,111,055. Nevertheless, such references are either directed to polyamide stick articles having very low concentrations of functional ingredient in the scope of our invention, e.g., fragrance, or polyamide stick articles containing high concentrations of undesirable hydrocarbons, e.g., mineral oil. Thus, no teaching exists in the prior art of functional ingredient-providing hydrocarbon-free polyamide stick articles, or dispensing packages containing and employing such stick articles. Furthermore, no teaching exists in the prior art of the inclusion of such articles in dispensing-type packages where such article-containing packages are deployed for coating functional substance-containing and emitting films on inanimate solid laminar surfaces.  Our invention is directed to a substantially hydrocarbon-free functional substance-providing stick article having consistently-maintained functional composition and dimensional integrity comprising a stiff, substantially monophasic, thermally-reversible composition comprising: In a preferred embodiment the compatible additive causes the stick article to have an operative value V of between 7 and 10 on a scale of 1-10 as measured by the "IFF SPDC Test" ("Substance-Providing Dimensional Compatibility Test" as described herein. Our invention is further directed to a package for utilization of the above-mentioned functional substance-providing stick article comprising means for supporting said functional substance-providing stick article such that an end portion of said stick article can be exposed for use. The means for supporting said stick article include a container for surrounding the stick article, the container having an opening such that the stick article can be exposed for use, and a border of the stick-surrounding member forming the opening, said border forming a top end of the supporting means, such that said end portion can be elevated from said means for supporting and can protrude therefrom so as to be exposed for use, said stick article being contained within said stick-surrounding member. Our invention is still further directed to a process for applying a controllably releasable functional substance which is one or more of a perfume composition, an insect repellant composition, a malodor control agent, an animal repellant composition, an anti-microbial composition, an insect attractant composition and/or an air freshener composition to an inanimate substantially solid surface, preferably a laminar surface comprising the steps of providing the above mentioned package; exposing for use the end portion of said stick article contained within said package; providing an solid surface to be treated; and applying the end portion of said stick article contained within said package to a finite area of said solid surface. A substantially hydrocarbon-free functional substance-providing stick article having consistently-maintained functional composition and dimensional integrity comprising a stiff, substantially monophasic, thermally-reversible composition comprising:  The functional substance-providing stick article of claim 1, having an operative value of V of between 7 and 10 on a scale of 1-10 as measured by the IFF SPDC Test wherein the operative value V of the stick article is measured according to the algorithm: V = V1σ + V2λ + V3δ + V4κ+ V5τ + V6γ + V7ρ wherein σ is the degree of stiffness of the stick, as measured on a scale of 1-10, with V1 being the fraction indicating the priority of the degree of stiffness, with 0.05 ≤ V1 ≤ 0.25; λ is the measure of pliability of the stick, as measured on a scale of 1-10, with V2 being the fraction indicating the priority of the degree of pliability, with 0.05 ≤ V2 ≤ 0.25; δ is the measure of durability of the stick, as measured on a scale of 1-10, with V3 being the fraction indicating the priority of the degree of durability, with 0.05 ≤ V3 ≤ 0.25; κ is the measure of the consistency of the stick, as measured on a scale of 1 - 10, with V4 being the fraction indicating the priority of the degree of consistency of the stick, with 0.05 ≤ V4 ≤ 0.25; τ is the measure of the lack of tackiness of the stick, as measured on a scale of 1 - 10 with a value of '10' indicating '0' tackiness, with V5 being the fraction indicating the priority of the degree of lack of tackiness, with 0.05 ≤ V5 ≤ 0.25; γ is the measure of the degree of glide of the stick, on use, as measured on a scale of 1-10 with V6 being the fraction indicating the priority of the degree of glide of the stick, on use, with 0.05 ≤ V6 ≤ 0.25; and ρ is the measure of surface rinsability immediately after use of the stick with V7 being the fraction indicating the priority of the degree of surface rinsability immediately after use of the stick, with 0.05 ≤ V7 ≤ 0.25, wherein ∑Vi = 1. The functional substance-providing stick article of claim 1 wherein the operativeness additive is a fatty alkoxylate ester consisting of a diester of an aliphatic or aromatic dicarboxylic acid formed by reacting said acid with a stoichiometric excess of one or more polyalkoxylated fatty alcohols, the fatty moieties of which contain from 12 to 22 carbon atoms. The functional substance-providing stick article of claim 3 wherein the operativeness additive is the tripropoxy diester of myristyl alcohol and adipic acid. The functional substance-providing stick article of claim 1 wherein the operativeness additive is in admixture with one or more sodium salts of a C12 - C18 saturated or unsaturated carboxylic acid with the concentration of said one or more sodium salts of a C12 - C18 saturated or unsaturated carboxylic acid being in the range of from about 0.5 to about 2.5 weight percent based on the total weight of said functional substance-providing stick article. The functional substance-providing stick article of claim 1 wherein the operativeness additive is 50% zinc ricinoleate diluted in at least one ethoxylated C12 - C14 fatty aliphatic alcohol. The functional substance-providing stick article of claim 1 wherein the operativeness additive is a mixture of octyl stearate, octyl palmitate and dioctyl adipate. The functional substance-providing stick article of claim 1 wherein the system-compatible functional composition is a perfume composition. The functional substance-providing stick article of claim 1 wherein the operativeness additive is in admixture with one or more sodium salts of a C12 - C18 saturated or unsaturated carboxylic acid with the concentration of said one or more sodium salts of a C12 - C18 saturated or unsaturated carboxylic acid being in the range of from about 0.5 to about 2.5 weight percent based on the total weight of said functional substance-providing stick article. The functional substance-providing stick article of claim 9 wherein the operativeness additive is in admixture with sodium stearate. The functional substance-providing stick article of claim 1 wherein the structural support polymer is an ester-terminated polyamide having a weight-average molecular weight of about 6000 and a softening point in the range of from 88°C to 94°C prepared by reacting "x" equivalents of C36 dicarboxylic acid, "y" equivalents of ethylenediamine and "z' equivalents of an alcohol selected from the group consisting of cetyl alcohol and stearyl alcohol wherein 0.9 ≤ xy + z ≤ 1.1   and   0.1 ≤ zy + z ≤ 0.7. The functional substance-providing stick article of claim 1 wherein each component of the system-compatible functional composition has a C log10P of between 1.0 and 6.5 wherein the term "C log10P" represents the calculated logarithm to the base 10 of the n-octanol/water partition coefficient of the said component. The functional substance-providing stick article of claim 11 wherein the function substance is a perfume composition and wherein each component of the perfume composition has a C log10P of between 1.0 and 6.5 wherein the term C log10P represents the calculated logarithm to the base 10 of the n-octanol/water partition coefficient of the said component. The functional substance-providing stick article of claim 10 wherein the structural support polymer is an ester-terminated polyamide having a weight-average molecular weight of about 6000 and a softening point in the range of from 88°C to 94°C prepared by reacting "x" equivalents of C36 dicarboxylic acid, "y" equivalents of ethylenediamine and "z' equivalents of an alcohol selected from the group consisting of cetyl alcohol and stearyl alcohol wherein 0.9 ≤ xy + z ≤ 1.1 and 0.1 ≤ zy + z ≤ 0.7. A package for utilization of the functional substance-providing stick article of claim 1 comprising means for supporting said functional substance-providing stick article such that an end portion of said stick article can be exposed for use, the means for supporting said stick article including a stick-surrounding member for surrounding the stick article, the stick-surrounding member having an opening such that the stick article can be exposed for use, and a border of the stick-surrounding member forming the opening, said border forming a top end of the supporting means, such that said end portion can be elevated from said means for supporting and can protrude therefrom so as to be exposed for use, said stick article being contained within said stick-surrounding member. The package of claim 15 wherein said means for elevating includes a screw feed mechanism having an elevator screw such that upon rotation of the elevator screw the stick article is pushed up from the bottom such that the end portion protrudes and is exposed for use. The package of claim 15 wherein the means for elevating is a means for pushing up the stick article so that the end portion protrudes from the means for supporting and is exposed for use. A process for applying a controllably releasable functional substance selected from the group consisting of a perfume composition, an insect repellant composition, an animal repellant composition, an anti-microbial composition, a malodor treating material, an insect attractant composition and an air freshener composition to a surface comprising the steps of providing the package of claim 15; exposing for use the end portion of said stick article contained within said package; providing an inanimate laminar substantially solid surface to be treated; and applying the end portion of said stick article contained within said package to a finite area of said laminar substantially solid surface. The process of claim 18 wherein the percent weight loss of product applied to an inanimate laminar surface, π vs. time, , measured in days, is according to the algorithm: π = α LN( + 1) + β wherein α is a number in the range of from about 3.5 to about 7.5 and β is a number in the range of from about -1.0 to about +4.0. The process of claim 19 wherein α is a function of absolute temperature as measured in degrees Rankine, T, and is according to the algorithm: α = 0.043T - 18.96 and wherein β is a function of absolute temperature as measured in degrees Rankine, T, and is according to the algorithm: β = - 0.6LN (580 - T) + 1.7. A package for utilization of the functional substance-providing stick article of claim 14 comprising means for supporting said functional substance-providing stick article such that an end portion of said stick article can be exposed for use, the means for supporting said stick article including a stick-surrounding member for surrounding the stick article, the stick-surrounding member having an opening such that the stick article can be exposed for use, and a border of the stick-surrounding member forming the opening, said border forming a top end of the supporting means, such that said end portion can be elevated from said means for supporting and can protrude therefrom so as to be exposed for use, said stick article being contained within said stick-surrounding member. The package of claim 21 wherein said means for elevating includes a screw feed mechanism having an elevator screw such that upon rotation of the elevator screw the stick article is pushed up from the bottom such that the end portion protrudes and is exposed for use. The package of claim 21 wherein the means for elevating is a means for pushing up the stick article so that the end portion protrudes from the means for supporting and is exposed for use. A process for applying a controllably releasable functional substance selected from the group consisting of a perfume composition, an insect repellant composition, an animal repellant composition, an anti-microbial composition, an insect attractant composition and an air freshener composition to an inanimate laminar substantially solid surface comprising the steps of providing the package of claim 21; exposing for use the end portion of said stick article contained within said package; providing an inanimate laminar surface to be treated; and applying the end portion of said stick article contained within said package to a finite area of said laminar substantially solid surface. The process of claim 24 wherein the percent weight loss of product applied to an inanimate laminar surface, π vs. time, , measured in days, is according to the algorithm: π = αLN(+ 1)+ β wherein α is a number in the range of from about 3.5 to about 7.5 and β is a number in the range of from about -1.0 to about +4.0. The process of claim 25 wherein α is a function of absolute temperature as measured in degrees Rankine, T, and is according to the algorithm: α = 0.043T - 18.96 and wherein β is a function of absolute temperature as measured in degrees Rankine, T, and is according to the algorithm: β=-0.6LN(580-T)+1.7 A composition comprising (a) sodium stearate and (b) the tripropoxy diester of myristyl alcohol and adipic acid. The composition of claim 27 wherein the weight ratio range of stearic acid: tripropoxy diester of myristyl alcohol and adipic acid is from 1:1 to 4:1. <seperator>EP-1661691-A2<id_sep>groupB32B1slash00group subgroupB32B27slash34subgroup subgroupF16L11slash04subgroup sectionBsection subgroupB32B27slash18subgroup subgroupB32B1slash08subgroup groupB32B25slash00group sectionFsection classF16class subclassB32Bsubclass subgroupB32B25slash08subgroup classB32class subclassF16Lsubclass Low cost, low permeation multi-layer tubing having intermediate polymeric alloy layer A multi-layer tubing composed of a first layer, a second layer and an intermediate layer interposed between the first layer and the second layer. The first layer contains a first melt-processible thermoplastic such as polyamides, thermoplastic elastomers, and mixtures of such materials. The second layer contains a second melt-processible thermoplastic chemically dissimilar form the melt-processible thermoplastic employed in the first layer. The intermediate layer is made of a solidified melt-processible thermoplastic solution which contains the first melt-processible thermoplastic, the second melt-processible thermoplastic , and a polymeric compatibilizer, such that the first thermoplastic and the second thermoplastic exist as discretely discemable components dispersed relative to one another in an essentially non-homogenous manner.  FIELD OF THE INVENTION This application is a continuation-in-part application of U.S. Serial Number 10/161,524 filed January 3, 2002 granted as US Patent 6,823,898. The present invention relates to tubing for conveying fluids therethrough. More particularly, the present invention related to a polymeric tubing which is resistant to permeation by organic compounds. The present invention also relates to tubing adapted for use in a motor vehicle. More particularly, the present invention relates to a multi-layer tube which can be employed for transporting hydrocarbon fluids such as a fuel line or vapor recovery line of a motor vehicle. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION There exists a need for durable polymeric tubing in a number of fluid handling situations. Depending on the nature of the fluid conveyed through the tube and/or the external environment in which the tube is placed, there is also a need for the polymeric tube to exhibit low permeation to various organic compounds, for example, hydrocarbons. One area where polymeric tubing can be advantageously employed is in motor vehicles. Single layer fuel lines and vapor return lines of synthetic materials such as polyamides have been proposed and employed in the past. Fuel lines employing such materials generally have lengths of at least several meters. It is important that the line, once installed, not materially change during the length of operation, either by shrinkage, elongation or as a result of the stresses to which the line may be subject during use. It is also becoming increasingly important that the lines employed be essentially impervious to hydrocarbon emissions due to permeation through the tubing. It is anticipated that future Federal and state regulations will fix the limit for permissible hydrocarbon emissions due to permeation through such lines. For instance, various environmental standards mandate maximum levels for total passive hydrocarbon emission for a vehicle. Levels at or below 2 g/m Various types of tubing have been proposed to address these concerns. In general, the most successful of these have been co-extruded multi-layer tubing. The successful tubing constructions generally have a relatively thick outer layer composed of a material resistant to the exterior environment. The innermost layer is thinner and is composed of a material which is chosen for its ability to block diffusion of organic materials to the outer layer. The materials blocked typically are organic compounds such as aliphatic hydrocarbons, alcohols and other materials present in fuel blends. The materials of choice for the inner layer are polyamides such as Nylon 6, Nylon 6.6, Nylon 11 and Nylon 12. Alcohol and aromatics in the fluid conveyed through the tube diffuse through the tubing wall at rates different from the aliphatic components. The resulting change in the composition of the liquid in the tubing can change the solubility thresholds of the material in the tube so as, for example, to be able to dissolve monomers and oligomers of tubing materials, such as Nylon 11 and Nylon 12, into the liquid. The presence of copper ions, which can be picked up from the fuel pump, accelerates crystallization of the dissolved monomers and oligomers into a crystalized precipilate. The crystallized precipitate can block filters and fuel injectors and collect to limit travel of the fuel-pump or carburetor float as well as build up on critical control surfaces of the fuel pump. A multi-layer tubing comprising:  The multi-layer tubing of claim 1 wherein the polyamide of the first melt-processible thermoplastic is selected form the group consisting of polyamide 6, polyamide 6.6, polyamide 11, polyamide 12, and mixtures thereof. The multi-layer tubing of claim 2 wherein the second melt-processible thermoplastic is a fluoroplastic. The multi-layer tubing of claim 3 wherein the fluoroplastic is selected from the group consisting of polyvinylidine fluoride, polyvinyl fluoride, polychlorotrifluoroethylene, ethylene tetrafluoroethylene copolymers and mixtures thereof. The multi-layer tubing of claim 4 wherein the thermoplastic is selected from the group consisting of ethylene tetrafluoroethylene copolymers, polyvinylidine fluoride, polyvinyl fluoride and mixtures thereof. The multi-layer tubing of claim 3 wherein the thermoplastic material employed in the intermediate layer consists essentially of:  The multi-layer tubing of claim 6 wherein the fluoroplastic is between about 60% and about 70% by weight and the polyamide is between about 30% and about 40% by weight. The multi-layer tubing of claim 7 wherein the polyamide thermoplastic is dispersed within the fluoroplastic in the intermediate layer in localized regions in a non-homogenous manner. The multi-layer tubing of claim 10 wherein the localized polyamide regions exhibit a concentration gradient through radial thickness of the intermediate layer and wherein a region of greater polyamide concentration is proximate to the first layer. The multilayer tubing of claim 6 wherein the polymeric compatibilizer is selected from the group consisting of graft copolymers of fluoroplastic, graft copolymers of polyamide block copolymers of fluoropolymers, and block copolymers of polyamides. The multilayer tubing of claim 10 wherein the polymeric compatibilizer comprises at least one of fluoropolymers grafted with at least one of maleic anhydride , GMA, methylacrylcaprolactam, acrylcaprolactam, carboxylic acid, polyamide chains, halogenated polyethylenes, and vinyl benzyl chlorides. The multi-layer tubing comprising:  The multi-layer tubing as defined in claim 10 wherein the second layer is made of a fluoropolymer material selected from the group consisting of polyvinylidene fluoride, ethylene tetrafluoroethylene, and mixtures thereof. The multi-layer tubing of claim 12 wherein the first layer is made from a material selected from the group consisting of 12 carbon block polyamides, 11 carbon block polyamides, 6 carbon block polyamides, and mixtures thereof. The multi-layer tubing of claim 14 wherein the first layer is a 6 carbon block polyamide. The multi-layer tubing of claim 15 wherein the melt-processible thermoplastic of the intermediate layer comprises:  The multi-layer tubing of claim 14 wherein the polyamide thermoplastic is dispersed within the fluoroplastic in the intermediate layer in localized regions in a non-homogenous manner. The multi-layer tubing of claim 16 wherein the localized polyamide regions exhibit a concentration gradient through radial thickness of the intermediate layer and wherein a region of greater polyamide concentration is proximate to the first layer. The multilayer tubing of clain 16 wherein the polymeric compatibilizer is selected from the group consisting of graft copolymers of fluoroplastic, graft copolymers of polyamide, block copolymers of fluoroplastic, and block copolymers of polyamides. The multilayer tubing of claim 19 wherein the polymeric compatibilizer comprises at least one of fluoropolymers grafted with at least one of maleic anhydride, GMA, methylacrylcaprolactam, acrylcaprolactam, carboxylic acid, polyamide chains, halogenated polyethylenes, and vinyl benzyl chlorides. <seperator>EP-1378659-A2<id_sep>subclassF02Msubclass groupF02M45slash00group sectionFsection subgroupF02M63slash02subgroup classF02class groupF02M63slash00group subgroupF02M45slash12subgroup Fuel injector and diesel engine comprising the same A fuel injector can reduce the emissions generated during low load and decrease NOx during high load. The fuel injector comprises a first accumulator for accumulating a pressurized fuel, a second accumulator for accumulating a fuel having a higher pressure than the pressure of the fuel in the first accumulator, fuel injection valves to which the fuel from the first and second accumulators is supplied and thereby the fuel injection valves are opened, and the fuel is injected, fuel feeding pipes for feeding the fuel accumulated in the first and second accumulators to the fuel injection valves; a first valve mechanism which is provided at the fuel feeding pipe and which opens and allows the flow of the fuel in the first accumulator to the fuel injection valves, a second valve mechanism which is provided at the fuel feeding pipe and which opens and allows the flow of the fuel in the second accumulator to the fuel injection valves, and a control device for controlling the first and second valve mechanisms. The first accumulator and the first valve mechanism, and the second accumulator and the second valve mechanism, are provided in parallel to each other to the fuel feeding pipe. In a normal injection mode, the control device makes the first and second valve mechanisms open at the same time. In an injection rate control mode, the control device makes an open timing of the first valve mechanism earlier than an open timing in the normal injection mode.  The present invention relates to a fuel injector and to a diesel engine provided with the fuel injector. As an accumulator fuel injector, a fuel injector comprising one accumulator accumulating a pressurized fuel, fuel injection valves to which the fuel is supplied from the accumulator, and thereby the fuel injection valves are opened and the fuel is injected, fuel feeding pipes for feeding the fuel accumulated in the accumulator to the fuel injection valves, and one valve mechanism which is provided to the fuel feeding pipe and which opens and allows the flow of the fuel in the accumulator to the fuel injection valves. In the fuel injector, regardless of increase and decrease of a load applied to the fuel injector, a fuel injection rate is substantially fixed during fuel injecting. Therefore, in this fuel injector, smoke emission during low load is reduced due to high injection rate. However, at the early period of a fuel injection during high load, since a large amount of fuel is injected, the amount of NOx contained in exhaust gas increases, and environmental problems may occur. Therefore, countermeasures, which can achieve the reduction in smoke emission during low load and decrease in NOx during high load, have been desired. In addition, in the diesel engine comprising this fuel injector, when the valve mechanism is broken and the diesel engine does not operate, the diesel engine must be stopped and the valve mechanism must be changed. Therefore, for example, when the diesel engine is used for generating electric power, during the change operation, electric power is temporarily not supplied. In addition, when the diesel engine is a main engine of a ship, the ship is temporarily crippled. Furthermore, for example, Unexamined Japanese Patent Application, First Publication No. Hei 11-182380 discloses an accumulator fuel injector which controls the fuel injection rate at an early period of a fuel injection. The accumulator fuel injector comprises fuel injection valves each of which comprises a solenoid valve for controlling fuel injection therein, a low pressure accumulator, a high pressure accumulator, and a solenoid valve for changing pressure which opens and allows the flow of fuel from the high pressure accumulator to the fuel injection valves. In this fuel injector, when the solenoid valve for controlling fuel injection is opened, fuel, which is applied to a hydraulic piston closing a needle valve, is recovered in a fuel tank via a leak pipe. Thereby, the needle valve is pushed upwardly by the fuel in a fuel pool and fuel is injected from a nozzle hole to a combustion chamber. In contrast, when the solenoid valve for controlling fuel injection is closed, the hydraulic piston of the needle valve is pressed, the needle valve is closed. Specifically, at the early period of the fuel injection, the solenoid valve for changing pressure is closed and the solenoid valve for controlling fuel injection is opened, fuel is supplied from the low pressure accumulator to the fuel injection valves. At the later phase of the fuel injection, the solenoid valve for changing pressure and the solenoid valve for controlling fuel injection are both opened, and thereby fuel in the high pressure accumulator is supplied to the fuel injection valves. A fuel injector comprising:  A fuel injector comprising:  A fuel injector comprising:  A fuel injector comprising:  A fuel injector according to claim 1, wherein, during the injection rate control mode, the control device makes an open timing of the first valve mechanism earlier than the open timing in the normal injection mode; and the control device makes an open timing of the second valve mechanism later than an open timing in the normal injection mode. A fuel injector according to claim 2, wherein, during the injection rate control mode, the control device makes an open timing of the first valve mechanism earlier than the open timing in the normal injection mode; and the control device makes an open timing of the second valve mechanism later than an open timing in the normal injection mode. A fuel injector according to one of claims 1, 2, 5, and 6, wherein the control device makes the open timing of the first valve mechanism advance gradually. A fuel injector according to one of claims 3 to 6, wherein the control device makes the open timing of the second valve mechanism retard gradually. A fuel injector according to one of claims 1 to 8, wherein a pump for increasing the pressure of the to a predetermined value is provided for each of the first and second accumulators. A fuel injector comprising:  A fuel injector comprising:  A fuel injector according to claim 10 or 11, wherein the first valve mechanism is provided at the fuel feeding pipe downstream of the second valve mechanism in a flow direction of the fuel toward the fuel injection valves. A fuel injector according to claim 10 or 12, wherein the control device makes the open timings of the first and second valve mechanisms in the injection rate control mode earlier than those of the first and second valve mechanisms in the normal injection mode. A fuel injector according to claim 11 or 12, wherein the control device makes the open timing of the first valve mechanism in the injection rate control mode earlier than that of the first valve mechanism in the normal injection mode. A fuel injector according to one of claims 10 to 14, wherein the control device operates the fuel pressure reducing device such that the pressure of the fuel is reduced gradually. A fuel injector according to one of claims 10 to 15, wherein a pump for increasing the pressure of the to a predetermined value is provided for each of the first and second accumulators. A fuel injector comprising:  A fuel injector according to claim 17, wherein the at least one accumulator comprises a first accumulator for accumulating a pressurized fuel and a second accumulator for accumulating a fuel having a higher pressure than the pressure of fuel in the first accumulator;    wherein the at least one valve mechanism comprises a first valve mechanism which is provided at the fuel feeding pipe and which opens and allows the flow of the fuel in the first accumulator to the fuel injection valves and a second valve mechanism which is provided at the fuel feeding pipe and which opens and allows the flow of the fuel in the second accumulator to the fuel injection valves; and    wherein the flow fuse is provided between the first accumulator and the first valve mechanism, and between the second accumulator and the second valve mechanism. A fuel injector according to claim 17 or 18, wherein the accumulator, the valve mechanism, and the flow fuse comprise a unit. A fuel injector according to 19, wherein the valve mechanism comprises another unit, and the unit comprising the valve mechanism is detachable from the unit comprising the accumulator and the flow fuse. A fuel injector comprising:  A fuel injector according to claim 21, wherein the valve mechanism for the accumulator accumulating a fuel having the lowest pressure is provided at the fuel feeding pipe downstream of the other valve mechanisms in a flow direction of the fuel toward the fuel injection valves. A fuel injector according to claim 21, wherein the accumulator comprises a first accumulator for accumulating a pressurized fuel and a second accumulator for accumulating a fuel having a higher pressure than the pressure of fuel in the first accumulator; and    wherein valve mechanism comprises a first valve mechanism which is provided at the fuel feeding pipe and which opens and allows the flow of the fuel in the first accumulator to the fuel injection valves and a second valve mechanism which is provided at the fuel feeding pipe and which opens and allows the flow of the fuel in the second accumulator to the fuel injection valves. A fuel injector according to claim 23, wherein the first valve mechanism is provided at the fuel feeding pipe downstream of the second valve mechanism in a flow direction of the fuel toward the fuel injection valves. A fuel injector according to one of claims 21 to 24, wherein a pump for increasing the pressure of the to a predetermined value is provided for each of the accumulator. A diesel engine comprising the fuel injector according to claims 1 to 25 and cylinder heads provided with the fuel injection valves. A diesel engine according to claim 26, wherein the accumulator and the valve mechanism are provided separately from the cylinder heads. A diesel engine according to claim 27, wherein the diesel engine further comprises a governor for detecting a load of the diesel engine; and the control device controls the valve mechanisms based on signals from the governor. A diesel engine according to claim 27, wherein the diesel engine further comprises a governor for detecting a load of the diesel engine; and the control device controls the valve mechanism and the fuel pressure reducing device based on signals from the governor. A diesel engine according to claim 26, wherein the accumulator, the valve mechanism, and the flow fuse are provided separately from the cylinder heads. A fuel injector according to claim 30, wherein the accumulator and the valve mechanism comprise a unit. A fuel injector according to claim 31, wherein a flow fuse is provided between the accumulator and the valve mechanism; and the valve mechanism is detachable from the accumulator and the flow fuse. <seperator>EP-1440659-A2<id_sep>groupA61B5slash00group classA61class subgroupA61B5slash06subgroup sectionGsection classG01class subgroupG01S5slash06subgroup subgroupG01S5slash04subgroup subclassG01Ssubclass sectionAsection subclassA61Bsubclass groupA61B1slash00group A method and system for measuring the position of an in vivo radio device A system for measuring the position of an in vivo radio device is disclosed. The system comprises the in vivo radio device (100) administered into a living organism, a plurality of ex vivo radio devices (200-1...200-n) disposed outside of the living organism, and a position measuring device (300). The in vivo radio device (100) includes a transmitter for transmitting a vital information signal or a position measuring signal. Each of the ex vivo radio devices (200-1...200-n) includes a receiver for receiving the vital information signal or the position measuring signal. The position measuring (300) device includes a position measuring unit for measuring the position of the in vivo radio device based on receiving characteristics of the vital information signal or the position measuring signal received by the ex vivo radio devices.   The present invention generally relates to methods and systems for measuring the position of an in vivo radio device, such position measuring devices, and in vivo radio devices, and specifically relates to such a method and system for measuring the position of the in vivo radio device based on receiving characteristics of position measuring signals. Endoscopes have long been used as medical devices for acquiring in vivo information and taking it to the outside. The endoscope is a camera mounted at an end of a cable. The camera takes pictures of a selected place (e.g., a diseased part) in a human body, and transmits the pictures via the cable to display them on a monitor device outside of the human body. However, the camera has to be swallowed and the cable has to be moved around in the human body to carry the camera to the selected place, and therefore a great burden is imposed on the patient. In order to mitigate the burden on the patient, it was envisaged that electromagnetic waves can be used for transmitting vital information acquired in the human body to the outside. In this scheme, a patient swallows a small-sized capsule endoscope with a built-in camera. This ingested capsule endoscope moves in the patient's body and takes pictures of the gastrointestinal tract in response to control signals transmitted from outside of the patient's body. The pictures taken are transmitted from the capsule to a monitor device outside of the patient's body by RF, and displayed on the monitor device. One good example of such capsules is published on the Internet Website at www.rfnorika.com with a title "Endoscope Capsule NORIKA System". When doctors use such pictures or images displayed on the monitor to diagnose, it is essential for them to know precisely where in the patient's body the images were taken or where the administered capsule is located in the patient's body at present.  Accordingly, it is one object of the present invention to provide a method, system and device for precisely measuring the position of a device administered in a living organism, such position measuring devices, and in vivo radio devices; and more specifically that relates to such a method and system for measuring the position of the in vivo radio device based on receiving characteristics of (the information contained in) position measuring signals. Another and more specific object of the present invention is to provide a method for measuring the position of an in vivo radio device administered into a living organism, comprising the steps of transmitting a vital information signal or a position measuring signal by the in vivo radio device; receiving the vital information signal or the position measuring signal by a plurality of ex vivo radio devices disposed outside of the living organism; and measuring the position of the in vivo radio device, based on receiving characteristics of the vital information signal or the position measuring signal received by the ex vivo radio devices. According to another feature of the present invention, there is provided a position measuring system comprising an in vivo radio device administered into a living organism, a plurality of ex vivo radio devices disposed outside of the living organism, and a position measuring device, wherein, the in vivo radio device includes a transmitter for transmitting a vital information signal or a position measuring signal; each of the ex vivo radio devices includes a receiver for receiving the vital information signal or the position measuring signal; and the position measuring device includes a position measuring unit for measuring the position of the in vivo radio device based on receiving characteristics of the vital information signal or the position measuring signal received by the ex vivo radio devices. A method for measuring a position of an in vivo radio device administered into a living organism, comprising the steps of:  A position measuring system comprising an in vivo radio device administered into a living organism, a plurality of ex vivo radio devices disposed outside of the living organism, and a position measuring device, wherein,    the in vivo radio device includes a transmitter for transmitting a vital information signal or a position measuring signal;    each of the ex vivo radio devices includes a receiver for receiving the vital information signal or the position measuring signal; and    the position measuring device includes a position measuring unit for measuring a position of the in vivo radio device based on receiving characteristics of the vital information signal or the position measuring signal received by the ex vivo radio devices. A position measuring system comprising an in vivo radio device administered into a living organism, and a plurality of ex vivo radio devices disposed outside of the living organism, wherein,    each of the ex vivo radio devices includes a transmitter for transmitting a position measuring signal; and    the in vivo radio device includes a receiver for receiving the position measuring signals from the ex vivo radio devices, and a position measuring unit for measuring a position of the in vivo radio device based on receiving characteristics of the position measuring signals from the ex vivo radio devices. A position measuring device for measuring a position of an in vivo radio device administered into a living organism, comprising:  The position measuring device as claimed in Claim 4, wherein    the position measuring unit measures the position of the in vivo radio device, based on one of differences in receiving times of the vital information signals or the position measuring signals received by the ex vivo radio devices, phase differences of the vital information signals or the position measuring signals received by the ex vivo radio devices, and arriving directions of the vital information signals or the position measuring signals received by the ex vivo radio devices. An in vivo radio device to be administered into a living organism, comprising:  The in vivo radio device as claimed in Claim 6, wherein    the position measuring unit measures the position of the in vivo radio device, based on one of differences in receiving times of the position measuring signals received from the ex vivo radio devices, phase differences of the position measuring signals received from the ex vivo radio devices, and arriving directions of the position measuring signals transmitted by the ex vivo radio devices and received by the in vivo radio device. The in vivo radio device as claimed in Claim 6, wherein,    the position measuring unit notifies the ex vivo radio devices of the measured position. <seperator>EP-1477500-A1<id_sep>groupC08F4slash00group subgroupC08F4slash642subgroup groupC08F110slash00group groupC08F10slash00group subclassC08Fsubclass sectionCsection subgroupC08F110slash14subgroup classC08class CRYSTALLINE POLYMER OF HIGHER a-OLEFIN AND PROCESS FOR PRODUCING THE SAME A crystalline higher α-olefin polymer which is obtained from a C Technical Field The present invention relates to a crystalline polymer of a higher α-olefin having 10 or more carbon atoms which are useful as resin modifiers, components of tackifiers, adhesives or lubricating oils, organic and inorganic composite materials, heat accumulators, modifiers for fuel oils such as light oils, modifiers for asphalt, or high-performance waxes, and a process for producing the same Background Art Hitherto, there have been made various studies concerning polymerization of higher α-olefins having 10 or more carbon using mainly Ziegler/Natta catalysts. For instance, the above studies have been reported in "Polymer J.", 10, 619, (1978), "Macromol. Chem.", 190, 2683 (1989), "Makromol. Chem., Rapid Comm.", 13, 447 (1992), Japanese Patent Application Laid-open No. Hei 7-145205, etc. However, the higher α-olefin polymers described in these literatures tend to have a low molecular weight as well as a high melting point due to a high regularity thereof, and further tend to exhibit a non-uniformity owing to existence of two melting points thereof, etc. In addition, in "Macromol. Sci. Pure Appl. Chem.", A35, 473 (1998), "J. Polym. Sci.", A, 38, 233 (2000), "Macromol. Mater. Eng.", 286, 480 (2001) and "Macromol. Matr. Eng.", 286, 350 (2001), it is described that higher α-olefin polymers are produced in the presence of homogeneous catalysts called metallocene catalysts. However, the polymers produced in the presence of such homogeneous catalysts also fail to exhibit a sufficiently high molecular weight, and have a high melting point due to a high regularity thereof, and further show a non-uniformity owing to existence of two melting points, similarly to the above-described polymers obtained using the heterogeneous catalysts. The polymers having a plurality of melting points tend to be non-uniform in crystal size, etc., which may result in occurrence of stickiness. Further, when such polymers are blended as a modifier with other resins, the resultant blend tends to be non-uniform, thereby failing to modify properties of the resins as desired. Also, in the applications such as heat accumulating agents, in order to enhance a heat accumulating efficiency, it is required that resins used therein cause abrupt exothermic or endothermic reaction due to abrupt melting or crystallization thereof at a specific temperature. Therefore, it will be difficult to use the above non-uniform resins in such applications. Accordingly, an object of the present invention is to provide a crystalline higher α-olefin polymer that is excellent in compatibility with thermoplastic resins, especially polyolefins, compatibility with lubricating oils, fuel oils or waxes, mixability with inorganic fillers and fabricability (secondary processability) and has a narrow melting or crystallization temperature range, and a process producing the same. Disclosure of the Invention As a result of extensive researches for achieving the above object, the inventors have found that crystalline resins obtained from higher α-olefins having 10 or more carbon atoms whose melting point (Tm) lies in a specific range as measured by DSC, can meet the above object, and such polymers can be produced in the presence of specific metallocene catalysts. The present invention has been accomplished based on this finding. (1) A crystalline higher α-olefin polymer obtained from a higher α-olefin, having 10 or more carbon atoms, which satisfies any of the following requirements (2A) and (2B):  The crystalline higher α-olefin polymer according to claim 1, wherein said polymer has a weight-average molecular weight (Mw) of 1,000 to 10,000,000 as measured by gel permeation chromatography (GPC). The crystalline higher α-olefin polymer according to claim 1, wherein said polymer has a molecular weight distribution (Mw/Mn) of 5.0 or lower as measured by gel permeation chromatography (GPC). The crystalline higher α-olefin polymer according to claim 1, wherein said polymer has a stereoregularity index M2 of 50 mol% or higher. A process for producing the crystalline higher α-olefin polymer as claimed in claim 1, comprising:  <seperator>EP-1263055-A2<id_sep>sectionHsection sectionGsection classH01class subclassG02Bsubclass subgroupH01L31slash0232subgroup subclassH01Lsubclass subgroupH01L27slash146subgroup subgroupG02B7slash02subgroup subgroupH01L31slash0203subgroup classG02class CMOS image sensor A CMOS image sensor comprising: a light receiving unit as a photoelectric conversion portion; a signal processing circuit unit; a first color filter layer array and a first microlens array layer, which are provided on an upper surface of the light receiving portion; and a second layer comprising at least one of a color filter layer and a microlens array layer, provided on a region of at least a portion of an upper surface of the signal processing circuit portion.  The present invention relates to a CMOS (complementary metal oxide semiconductor) image sensor, and more particularly to a CMOS image sensor adapted for an image pickup apparatus which can be installed in a cellular phone, a personal computer, or the like. Recently, remarkable improvement of CPU performance, progress of image processing technology and the like have allowed to process digital image data easily. In particular, in the field of cellular phone or PDA (personal digital assistant), some types with a display which can display images appear on the market, and significant improvement of data transfer rate in radio communication may be expected in the near future. Accordingly, it is anticipated that transfer of image data between such types of cellular phones and PDAs are frequently carried out. At present, after a subject image is converted to image data by a digital still camera or the like, transfer of such image data is carried out through internet by using a personal computer or the like. However, in order to transfer the image data in such a manner, both apparatuses, i.e., a digital still camera and a personal computer, are required. Lately, as an image input device of a mobile data terminal, a miniature camera module in which both an image pickup device and an optical lens system are mounted on a substrate, is proposed. Such a miniature camera module does not require to have a digital still camera nor a personal computer and enables picking up an image to send it to a person simply, by a cellular phone which can be carried around with ease. Further, as an image pickup device for such a miniature camera module, CMOS image sensors are given attention, in place of a conventional CCD sensor, for the following reason. However, in the case that the image pickup device and the optical lens system are mounted on a single substrate, the light receiving plane of the image pickup device has to be set at an in-focus position of the optical lens system optimally. Accordingly, adjustment for the purpose occurs a large problem. For example, when mounting the image pickup device and the optical lens system onto the same substrate, it is difficult to set the light receiving plane of the image pickup device at an in-focus position of the optical lens system optimally because of variation in thickness of the adhesive which is used for mounting the optical lens system onto the substrate and variation in size of the components. In order to improve the dimensional precision for setting the light receiving plane of the image pickup device at an in-focus position of the optical lens system, a high-precision setting technique or a separate mechanism for adjusting to obtain an in-focus state is required. Such a requirement increases the production costs. Even when a CMOS image sensor is adopted instead of a CCD image sensor, the above-described problem arises similarly. Such a problem forms a large obstruction to producing a compact miniature camera module at a low cost. A CMOS image sensor comprising, a light receiving unit as a photoelectric converting device, and a signal processing circuit; further comprising:  The CMOS image sensor as claimed in claim 1, wherein the signal processing circuit comprises a digital signal processing circuit and the second layer is formed in a region of an upper surface of the digital signal processing circuit. The CMOS image sensor as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein the second layer comprises a color filter which comprises one of blue, red and green color filters. The CMOS image sensor as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the second layer comprises a structure to enable supporting a lens supporting member for supporting an optical lens, thereon. The CMOS image sensor as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the light receiving unit is formed in an approximate central region of a semiconductor chip and the signal processing circuit is formed in a peripheral region thereof in the same semiconductor chip. The CMOS image sensor as claimed in claim 5, wherein the region in which the second layer is provided comprises at least separated three small regions which surround the light receiving unit. The CMOS image sensor as claimed in claim 2, wherein the second layer is provided to cover almost whole upper surface of the digital signal processing circuit. A CMOS image sensor comprising:  <seperator>EP-1857044-A2<id_sep>subgroupA61B3slash13subgroup classA61class subgroupA61B3slash135subgroup sectionAsection subclassA61Bsubclass Flash generation and synchronisation for slit lamp microscope A bulb assembly 30 for a slit lamp microscope comprises flash generation means 33 able to produce a flash of light, synchronisation means 41 able to detect light from a camera flash, and a controller 32. The bulb assembly 30 is arranged so that, in use, when the controller receives a signal from the synchronisation means 41 indicating light from a camera flash has been detected, the controller causes the flash generation means 33 to produce a slave flash of light. The bulb assembly may further comprise a light source 31 and light from the light source may be focussed onto the flash generation means 33 so as to produce a virtual image 37 of the light source 31 in the same physical location as the flash generation means.  The present invention relates to a slit lamp microscope. More particularly, but not exclusively, the invention relates to a bulb assembly for a slit lamp microscope, arranged to allow the microscope, in conjunction with a camera, to be used a take a photograph of the interior of a patient's eye. A slit lamp microscope is a diagnostic tool commonly used by ophthalmologists and surgeons to examine a patient's eye. A patient is positioned in front of the microscope, and a line of light is shone into the patient's eye. The ophthalmologist can then examine the illuminated retina of the patient through the eyepiece of the slit lamp microscope. The line of light can be moved and focussed by the ophthalmologist in order to direct it towards an area of particular interest within the eye. A commonly used slit lamp microscope is the Haag Streit BM900, which allows the beam of light to be tilted and rotated by the user. The Haag Streit BM900 is shown in Figure 1 (prior art). Often an ophthalmologist or clinician may wish to take a photograph of the retina of a patient's eye. There are many reasons why this might be desirable. For example, a photograph would allow the clinician to obtain a second opinion on diagnosis from another clinician (or multiple clinicians) who is (are) not present. A photograph could be taken and emailed to a specialist for remote diagnoses. At present it is common for ophthalmologists to draw pictures of the interior of the eye for these purposes, which can be time consuming and inaccurate. The photograph could be used as a learning aid for trainees, or could be used to explain to the patient himself a problem with his retina. A photographic record of how a patient's retina has changed (if at all) over time would be useful in order to monitor the progress of a condition. There are two main ways in which a photograph of a patient's retina can be obtained using a slit lamp microscope. The first, and most prevalent, way is to attach a digital camera to the eyepiece of a standard slit lamp microscope, such as the BM900. However, we have found this to produce unsatisfactory pictures, because of the low level of illumination available. A slit lamp microscope directs only a small amount of light into a patient's eye. This allows a clinician to view a patient's retina without causing excessive discomfort to the patient by prolonged exposure to bright light. Thus only a very low level of light is directed onto the subject of the photograph. In order to produce a picture that is not overly dark, it is necessary to use a long shutter time, which results in poor quality pictures. Long exposures introduce unwanted noise into the resulting image, and the resulting picture may be blurred due to the patient moving during the exposure. The camera's own flash is of no assistance in this situation, as it is not directed at the patient's retina through the optical system of the slit lamp. A bulb assembly (30) for a slit lamp microscope (1) comprising flash generation means (33) able to produce a flash of light, synchronisation means (41) able to detect light (47) from a camera flash, and a controller (32), the bulb assembly being arranged so that, in use, when the controller (32) receives a signal from the synchronisation means (41) indicating light from a camera flash has been detected, the controller (32) causes the flash generation means (33) to produce a slave flash of light. The bulb assembly of claim 1 wherein at least some of the light from the flash generation means (33) is directed along the optical axis of the microscope. The bulb assembly of claim 1 or claim 2, further comprising a light source (31), wherein light from the light source is directed substantially along the optical axis of the microscope. The bulb assembly of claim 3 wherein the light source (31) and the flash generation means (33) are located substantially on the optical axis of the microscope. The bulb assembly of claim 3 or claim 4 wherein light from the light source (31) is focussed onto the flash generation means (33), so as to produce a virtual image of the light source in the same physical location as the flash generation means. The bulb assembly of claim 5 wherein light from the light source is focussed onto the flash generation means using condensing lenses (35). The bulb assembly of any one of claims 3 to 6 wherein the light source (31) is a halogen bulb. The bulb assembly of any preceding claim wherein the controller (32) is arranged to cause the flash generation means (33) to produce a flash of light after receiving a signal indicating that a main camera flash has been detected by the synchronisation means (41). The bulb assembly of claim 8 wherein the synchronisation means (41) and the controller (32) are arranged to cause the slave flash of light on detection of a main camera flash, and not to cause the slave flash of light in response to a preliminary, test, flash of light from the camera. The bulb assembly of claim 8 wherein the synchronisation means (41) is arranged to send a signal to the controller (32) on detection of a main camera flash only. The bulb assembly of claim 8 wherein the synchronisation means (41) is adapted to send a signal to the controller (32) on detection of both a sample flash and a main flash, the controller being arranged to distinguish between the sample and main camera flashes, and to cause the slave flash to occur only in response to the main flash. The bulb assembly of any preceding claim wherein the synchronisation means (41) comprises a photo-detector. A method of taking a photograph of a subject through an eyepiece (7) of a slit lamp microscope (1) having a camera (13) aligned with an eye piece of the microscope comprising the steps of:  The method of claim 13 wherein the subject comprises a patient's retina. A slit lamp microscope comprising an optical axis, flash generation means (33) able to generate a flash of light, synchronisation means (41) arranged to detect light from a camera flash, and a flash controller (32), the microscope being arranged so that, in use, when the flash controller (32) receives a signal from the synchronisation means (41) indicating that light (47) from a camera flash has been detected, the flash controller (32) causes the flash generation means (33) to produce a slave flash of light, such that at least some of the light from the slave flash travels along the optical axis of the microscope. The microscope of claim 15 wherein the flash generation means (33), synchronisation means (41) and controller (32) are part of a self-contained bulb assembly (30). The microscope of claim 16 wherein the bulb assembly is removable and replaceable. A method for converting a prior art slit lamp microscope (1) to a slit lamp microscope in accordance with claim 15 comprising the steps of:  A slit lamp conversion kit, comprising a bulb assembly (30) in accordance with any one of claims 1 to 14, a camera (13), and an adaptor (15) for attaching the camera to an eyepiece (7) of a slit lamp microscope (1). <seperator>EP-1483980-A1<id_sep>classA43class subgroupA43B13slash14subgroup subgroupA43B13slash22subgroup subgroupA43B13slash04subgroup subclassA43Bsubclass subgroupA43B13slash02subgroup sectionAsection Footwear with shock-absorbing and massaging properties A shock absorbing system for footwear, and a device including said system, which comprises a plurality of first projections (4) distributed on the upper surface in contact with the users foot, which project in an upwardly manner from said upper surface, such that they extend at least, substantially normal or vertically to the lower surface of the foot where said system will be used; wherein said system activates by means of the exerted pressure on the plurality of second projections or protuberances (3) provided on the end of the lower surface, being in contact with the ground, which extend downwards therefrom, presenting different shapes as well as cross sections, comprising each one recesses or grooves which during the flexion of the foot when it  The present invention generally refers to the field of footwear, and particularly to a footwear shock-absorbing system, and more specifically to a footwear device, which comprises said shock-absorbing system. The shock-absorbing system and the device comprising the same are based on a construction system which allows to stimulate and increase the blood circulation producing a foot massage, which is activated by the walking movement, reactivating thereby the different parts of the human body, and at the same time it favors the movement as well as the activation of the most peripheral joints. Under certain situations or working conditions, a person is compelled to be in continuous movement during many hours of the day, and in some cases, more or less motionless; then, the comfort of the feet is more important, and therefore it is necessary to develop solutions of elastic suspension systems as well as footwear devices which produces a greater comfort to the user. For many years, shoe sole constructions have been developed, which are capable to massage the whole sole of the foot, since they are provided with cylindrical projections comprising rounded tips of the same or different heights, creating a resting surface according to the anatomic requisites. It has been found, however, that in spite of the efforts that have been made up to date, neither a uniform massage along the whole sole area of the foot nor a satisfactory support, which is suitable for the lower portion of the foot, have been possible to obtain. The prior-art documents describing articles or devices, such as those above-mentioned, and belonging to the closest related prior art of the subject matter of the instant application are the following: US patent 3,722,113, granted on March 27, 1973 to K. Birkenstock, describes an article of footwear having uppers which may be in form of straps, and a sole of yieldable elastomeric material; said article of footwear comprises on its lower surface projections which extend in a substantially perpendicular direction to the general plane of the respective surface of the article. Said projections may be of different lengths. Furthermore, the solution proposed in the patent document ES 2,116,430, belonging to the company Menghi Shoes- S.r.L of Italy, deals with a shoe sole, produced by means of molding or comprising a set of projections suitable for providing a massage to the sole of foot. The above-mentioned prior art solutions do not allow to achieve the required shock-absorbing, supporting and massaging action, since the projections suitable to support the foot do not have a design which allows to soften the pressure exerted by the foot over the displacement surface or the ground, nor a suitable height, nor the necessary arrangement to allow the foot-exerted pressure to be effectively distributed, but concentrating it only in local points without achieving a uniform distribution thereof. It is important to emphasize that a suitable massage action is produced when a constant change of the surface portions of the human anatomy is present, in this case in the foot subjected to the massage. A footwear shock-absorbing system, characterized in that it comprises a plurality of first projections (4) distributed on the upper surface being in contact with the user foot, projecting upwardly from said upper surface, such that they extend, at least, substantially in the normal direction to the lower foot surface where said system will be used, wherein said system is activated by means of the pressure exerted on a plurality of second projections or protuberances (3) provided at the end of the lower surface which is in contact with the ground, and said second projections (3) extend downwards thereof, exhibiting different shapes and cross sections from one embodiment to the other and each one comprises recesses or grooves, which on foot flexion during the stepping on the ground or walking surface, release elastically, displacing upwardly, whereby they press the first projections (4) of the upper part of the system in contact with the foot, displacing in all directions, thus achieving a massage, the shock absorbing effect and the uniform distribution of the weight on the foot. The footwear shock-absorbing system of claim 1, characterized in that it exhibits in the heel portion a set of elements having shapes and cross sections allowing the flexion and torsion of the foot in said heel portion, following the shape of the ground or supporting surface. The footwear shock-absorbing system of claim 1, characterized in that said plurality of first projections (4) on said upper surface facing the user foot are homogeneously distributed or in groups of protuberances which are placed according to the points corresponding to the reflex points located in the foot sole. A footwear device comprising upper means adapted to face the human foot sole, and lower or sole means placed distal regarding the foot for contacting the walking surface or the ground, characterized in that it comprises a plurality of first projections (4) distributed on said upper surface facing the user foot, wherein said first projections (4) project upwardly from thereof, such that they extend at least in a substantially normal direction to the lower surface of the foot, where said device will be used, and a plurality of second projections (3) extending downwards from thereof, which are provided at the end of lower surface being in contact with the ground, wherein said projections are flexible in all directions. The footwear device of claim 4, characterized in that the first projections (4) facing the foot sole form a set of circumferences separated each one from the other, exhibiting a central pin and a plurality of second downwards-extended projections (3), provided at the end of the lower surface in contact with the ground, generally forming circumferences with interrupted edges in at least a sector with a central pin (5). The footwear shock-absorbing system of claim 4, characterized in that the set of elements which comprise the heel section are generally placed in a wavy manner or in such way that they form waves (6), alternating and facing one to each other, including a series of curved elements which are raised regarding the base line of said wavy elements (6). The footwear device of claim 4, characterized in that it is manufactured from a flexible porous material, which is a natural or synthetic rubber. The footwear device of claim 4, characterized in that it is manufactured from a synthetic plastic porous material. The footwear device of claim 4, characterized in that it is manufactured from the above-mentioned mixed materials with or without a leather sole. The footwear device of claim 4, characterized in that said plurality of first projections (4) on said upper surface facing the user foot are homogeneously distributed or in groups of protuberances placed according to the points which correspond to the reflex points located in the foot sole. <seperator>EP-1668992-A1<id_sep>subgroupA23L2slash40subgroup subgroupA23P1slash10subgroup groupA23L1slash00group subclassA23Csubclass subgroupA23P1slash16subgroup groupA23C11slash00group subgroupA23L1slash03subgroup subclassA23Lsubclass subclassA23Psubclass sectionAsection classA23class food foam stabilised by small, solid particles The present invention relates to a foamable food composition comprising water, a foaming agent and solid particles for stabilising the foam. The composition may also comprise fat. The invention also relates to a method of preparing a foamable food composition. The invention further relates to a foam made from a foamable food composition according to the invention.  The invention relates to a foamable food composition. The invention further relates to a foam, obtainable from such a composition and to the manufacture of a foamable food composition. Usually it is considered desirable for a foamed food that it has a good stability for a sufficient duration of time. In particular, problems encountered with foamed foods are decrease in foam-firmness, decrease in overrun, drainage of fluid, decrease in foam volume by collapse of the foam and coarsening of bubbles during storage. The nature of stability problems in known foams and the duration for which stability is desired depends on the application. Instability in foams may be caused by various mechanisms: (1) disproportionation (Ostwald ripening), which is the diffusion of gas from small bubbles to larger bubbles due to difference in Laplace pressure; this type of instability occurs relatively much when gas having a high solubility in the material to be foamed is used: a foam foamed with the highly soluble N In the art it is usually tried to overcome stability problems by using binders, stabilisers and/or emulsifiers dissolved in the liquid phase. This may lead to highly complex product formulations, and/or complicated preparation processes, and may not always lead to satisfactory results. It is an object of the present invention to provide a food product in the form of a foam, with a satisfactory stability for its purpose. It is further an object of the invention to provide a new foamable food composition for preparing a food foam, with a good, preferably improved, foam stability. It is another object of the invention to provide a foamable food composition, such as a dairy cream composition, respectively food foam, which (also) has sufficient foam stability in the absence of fat, or in the presence of a reduced amount of fat. It has now been found possible to achieve one or more of the objects identified herein by providing a foamable food composition, respectively a food foam with a specific foam stabiliser. Accordingly, the present invention relates to the use of a solid inert particle, preferably an anisotropic particle, more preferably a silicate (such as a clay), as a foam stabiliser in a food foam. The invention further relates to a novel foamable food composition comprising an inert solid particle, preferably an anisotropic particle, more preferably a silicate, for stabilising the foam. In an embodiment the foamable composition comprises water, a foaming agent and inert solid particles, preferably anisotropic particles, for stabilising the foam. In an embodiment, the foamable composition comprises a peptide, in particular a protein, as a foaming agent and inert solid particles, preferably anisotropic particles, for stabilising the foam. In a preferred embodiment the foamable composition comprises water, at least a foaming agent selected from the group consisting of proteins and peptides, and inert solid particles - preferably anisotropic particles - for stabilising the foam. In an embodiment, the foamable food composition is a powdered (creamer) composition - for instance a foamer composition for cappuccino or another coffee topped with a foam - comprising a foaming agent and solid inert anisotropic particles, said creamer composition being capable of forming a foam on an aqueous liquid such as coffee when dispersed in the aqueous liquid. Foamable food composition comprising water, a foaming agent and solid inert particles for stabilising the foam. Food composition according to claim 1, wherein the solid inert particles are selected from the group consisting of inorganic mineral particles. Food composition according to claim 1 or 2 wherein the particles are anisotropic particles with an aspect ratio of at least 5. Food composition according to claim 2 or 3, wherein the particles are selected from the group consisting of silicates and layered double hydroxides. Food composition according to claim 4, wherein the silicate is a natural or synthetic clay. Food composition according to claim 5, wherein the clay is selected from kaolinites, montmorillonites and laponite Food composition according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the number average particle size of the solid inert particles, as determined by light scattering, is in the range of 5 nm to 10 µm, preferably less than 8 µm, more preferably less than 3 µm. Food composition according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the solid inert particles are present in an amount of about 0.1 to about 10 wt.% based upon the total weight, preferably of about 0.4-4 wt. %. Food composition according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the foaming agent is selected from proteins, polysaccharides and small-molecule surfactants, preferably from: milk proteins; Arabic gum; chemically modified starches, such as n-alkenyl succinic anhydride starches; chemically modified alginates, such as alkylene glycol alginates; monoglycerides and diglycerides. Food composition according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the foaming agent content, in particular the protein content, is at least 0.01 wt. %, preferably 0.1-20 wt. %. Food composition according to any one of the preceding claims, comprising a fat or a fat substitute, preferably a fat selected from milk fats and vegetable fats. Food composition according to any one of the preceding claims, selected from the group consisting of dairy products, pastry cream, beer, foamable coffee products, fruit drinks, preferably from the group consisting of dairy creams. Foamable food composition according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the total content of solid particles (including other solid particles than the inert solid particles for stabilising the foam) is 10 wt. % or less. Food composition according to any one of the preceding claims, comprising an expansion medium, preferably selected from air, nitrogen, N Aerosol container comprising a food composition according to claim 14. Foamable food composition, preferably according to any of the claims 1-14, wherein the composition is a powdered creamer composition comprising a foaming agent and solid inert anisotropic particles, said creamer composition being capable of forming a foam on an aqueous liquid such as coffee when dispersed in the aqueous liquid. Composition according to claim 16, wherein the amount of anisotropic particles is in the range of 0.1. to 4 wt. % based upon the weight of the powdered creamer Foamable food composition, preferably according to any of the claims 1-15, 16 or 17, comprising a foaming agent and solid inert particles for stabilising a foam, wherein the total amount of the solid inert particles and optionally present other solid particles is 10 wt. % or less. Food foam comprising a composition according to any of the claims 1-14 or 16-18. Food foam according to claim 19, selected from the group consisting of foams on a beverage (in particular on coffee, beer, a fruit drink, a milk drink, a yoghurt drink), ice creams, mousses, whipped creams, beaten creams, aerosol creams, toppings and aerated desserts. Food foam according to claim 19 or 20, having an overrun value of at least 1 %, preferably in the range of 20-800 %. Method for preparing a food composition according to any of the 1-14 or 18, comprising preparing a dispersion of the inert solid particles, water and foaming agent. Method according to claim 22, wherein the dispersion is mixed with a cream comprising fat or a fat substitute. Use of a solid inert particle, preferably an anisotropic particle, more preferably a silicate, in particular a clay, as a foam stabiliser in a food foam. <seperator>EP-1564467-A1<id_sep>subgroupF16K31slash36subgroup subclassF16Ksubclass sectionFsection subgroupF16K31slash40subgroup classF16class Electromagnetic valve A valve of the pilot type comprising a housing (12) with a circular cylinder end for mounting in a valve base (72). The housing has an inlet port (28), an outlet port (30), an internal cavity, and a flexible membrane (16) dividing the cavity into a flow chamber (42) and control chamber (44). The inlet port is in constant communication with the flow chamber, while the outlet port is in communication with the flow chamber via a valve seat formed in the housing opposite the membrane. The outlet port is formed at the face of the cylinder end. An annular seal (26) is disposed on that face, around the outlet pork, such that when the valve is mounted into the valve base, the seal is urged axially to a face of the valve base providing fluid-tight communication between the outlet port and an outlet opening in the valve base. The inlet port is formed at the lateral surface of the cylinder end, so as to provide inlet flow transverse to the axis of the cylinder end  FIELD OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to valves of the pilot type, in particular to self-contained valves comprising both the valve seat and the closing membrane. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION US 5,996,965 describes a solenoid valve of the pilot type especially intended for wet-room fittings. It has a housing with an inlet and an outlet port sealed off from each other by a membrane with a body that rests on a valve seat. The housing has a generally cylinder form with coaxial external thread. The inlet and the outlet ports are coaxial and are perpendicular to an end of the cylinder such that the inlet flow is opposite to the outlet flow. The outlet port is at the cylinder axis and is formed as a tubular body protruding from the valve housing. The solenoid valve is sealed in a plumbing fitting by two coaxial O-rings - one on the lateral surface of the housing and one on the lateral surface of the tubular body. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION In accordance with the present invention, there is provided a valve of the pilot type comprising a housing with a cylinder end having lateral surface, axis and an end face perpendicular thereto, for mounting in a valve base with an outlet opening formed in a face of the base, and an inlet opening, the housing having an inlet port at the cylinder end, an outlet port at the end face, an internal cavity, and a flexible membrane dividing the cavity into a flow chamber and control chamber. The inlet port is in constant communication with the flow chamber, while the outlet port is in communication with the flow chamber via a valve seat formed in the housing opposite the membrane and closable by displacement of the membrane. The end face is formed to receive an annular seal, for example a flat ring, disposed around the outlet port, such that when the valve is mounted to the valve base, the annular seal is urged axially to the face of the base providing fluid-tight communication between the outlet port and the outlet opening. The valve has a bleed channel connecting the flow chamber and the control chamber, preferably obtained through the membrane. The valve has a pilot channel connecting the outlet port with the control chamber and closable by a control element. The control element may be, for example, a solenoid armature in a valve of solenoid type. In a preferred embodiment of the invention, the inlet port of the valve is formed at the lateral surface of the cylinder end, so as to provide inlet flow transverse to the axis. If the face with the outlet opening, and the inlet opening are in a cylinder recess of the valve base, then a second annular seal may be disposed at the lateral surface, such that, when the cylinder end is mounted to the valve base, the second seal seals against the cylindrical recess, providing, together with the first annular seal, fluid-tight communication between the inlet port and the inlet opening. A valve of the pilot type comprising a housing (12) with a cylinder end having lateral surface, axis and an end face perpendicular thereto, for mounting in a valve base (72) with an outlet opening (78) formed in a face of said valve base (72) and an inlet opening (76), said housing (12) having an inlet port (28) at said cylinder end, an outlet port (30) at said end face, an internal cavity and a flexible membrane (16) dividing said cavity into a flow chamber (42) and control chamber (44), said inlet port (28) being in constant communication with said flow chamber (42), said outlet port (30) being in communication with said flow chamber (42) via a valve seat (36) formed in the housing (12) opposite said membrane (16) and closable by displacement of said membrane (16),    wherein said end face is formed to receive a first annular seal (26) disposed around said outlet port (30), such that when said valve (10) is mounted into said valve base (72), said first seal (26) is urged axially to said face (28) of the valve base (72) providing fluid-tight communication between said outlet port (30) and said outlet opening (78). The valve according to Claim 1, wherein said inlet port (28) is formed at said lateral surface so as to provide inlet flow transverse to said axis. The valve according to Claim 2, wherein said face (84) and said inlet opening (76) of the valve base (72) are in a cylinder recess (74), and said lateral surface is formed to receive a second annular seal (24) thereon, such that when said cylinder end is mounted into said cylinder recess (74), said second seal (24) is urged to said cylinder recess (74) providing, together with said first seal (26), fluid-tight communication between said inlet port (28) and said inlet opening (76). The valve according to Claim 2, further comprising an annular filtering element (32) fitted on said inlet port (28) at said lateral surface. The valve according to Claim 1, having a bleed channel (55) connecting the flow chamber (42) and the control chamber (44), said bleed channel (55) being formed through said membrane (16). The valve according to Claim 1, having a pilot channel (58) connecting said outlet port (30) with said control chamber (44) and closable by a control element (20). The valve according to Claim 6, wherein said valve has a solenoid (18) and said control element (20) is a movable armature of said solenoid (18). The valve according to Claim 6, wherein said pilot channel (58) is obtained through said membrane (16). The valve according to Claim 8, wherein said membrane (16) has a part (56) thereof firmly attached to said housing (12), and said pilot channel (58) is obtained through said attached part (56). The valve according to Claim 9, wherein said attached part (56) is in the center of the membrane (16). The valve according to Claim 10, wherein said attached part (56) is made of hard material at least sealed to the rest part of the membrane (16). The valve according to Claim 11, wherein said rest part of the membrane is formed as an integral resilient disk comprising five adjacent annular parts (46-48-50-52-54), from the periphery to the center: an outer ring (46) for mounting to said housing (12), a first thin flexible ring (48), a thick ring (50) for sealing said valve seat (36), a second thin flexible ring (52), and an annular lip (54) for sealing around said attached part (56). <seperator>EP-1359133-A1<id_sep>subgroupC04B35slash581subgroup subgroupH05K1slash02subgroup sectionHsection sectionBsection subgroupH01P3slash08subgroup classH01class subclassH05Ksubclass subclassC04Bsubclass subgroupC04B35slash591subgroup subgroupC04B35slash65subgroup subgroupH05K1slash03subgroup groupC04B38slash00group subgroupB24B37slash04subgroup classH05class subclassB24Bsubclass sectionCsection subgroupC04B41slash53subgroup classC04class classB24class subclassH01Psubclass subgroupC04B35slash584subgroup POROUS CERAMIC AND METHOD FOR PREPARATION THEREOF, AND MICROSTRIP SUBSTRATE Powder of a metal serving as a precursor for ceramics (1) and a sintering additive are mixed with each other and heat-treated by microwave heating thereby nitriding or oxidizing the metallic powder from the surface thereof and diffusing the metal with a nitride or an oxide formed on the shell of the metal for obtaining porous ceramics (1) having homogeneous and fine closed pores (1a). The porous ceramics (1) according to the present invention, having the closed pores (1a) homogeneously diffusing at a high ratio, exhibits excellent characteristics when applied to an electronic circuit board or the like requiring moisture absorption resistance, low permittivity and low dielectric loss as well as mechanical strength.  The present invention relates to porous ceramics and a method of preparing the same, and more specifically, it relates to porous ceramics for serving as an electrical insulating material applied to various types of wiring circuit boards or a lightweight structural material having moisture absorption resistance. The present invention also relates to a microstrip substrate employed for forming a waveguide of a high frequency of at least 1 GHz, particularly at least 30 GHz, and more specifically, it relates to a microstrip substrate having a microstrip line consisting of a conductor formed on the surface of a substrate consisting of porous ceramics. Improvements of characteristics such as further weight saving and improvement in strength or improvements of electrical characteristics are recently required to ceramics employed as various structural materials or electronic component materials. In a wafer transfer stage or a plotting stage used as a component of semiconductor equipment, for example, further weight saving of a stage material is required for high precision and high-speed driving. As to a circuit board or an insulating material employed for an electronic apparatus, a material having lower permittivity and lower dielectric loss is strongly required following recent improvement in frequency. Therefore, it is conceivably effective to use ceramics in a porous state. When the relative density of ceramics is reduced to 50 %, for example, the weight thereof can be reduced to 50 %. Further, the air exhibits excellent electrical insulation properties with permittivity of about 1 and dielectric loss of zero, and hence porous ceramics attains desirable characteristics as a material to which low permittivity and low dielectric loss are required. However, it is difficult to obtain a porous sintered body containing homogeneously dispersed fine pores simply by controlling a sintering step for a ceramic sintered body. In general, coarse pores are formed to disadvantageously reduce strength or result in heterogeneous characteristics. Further, most of pores forming the obtained porous sintered body are open pores deteriorating humidity resistance intrinsic to the ceramics, and desired characteristics cannot be attained in view of practicality due to remarkable deterioration of electrical characteristics (permittivity and dielectric loss) resulting from moisture, dispersion of various characteristics or the like. Therefore, various methods are devised for obtaining a porous material consisting of fine dosed pores. For example, Japanese Patent Laying-Open No. 3-177372 discloses an SiC-based porous sintered body containing a phase having a different thermal expansion coefficient to exhibit a total volume ratio of closed pores of 0.07 to 27.5 %, in order to improve toughness. When this method is employed for obtaining an SiC-based porous sintered body having dosed pores in a ratio of at least 27.5 %, however, oxidation resistance is reduced or the pore sizes are increased. Japanese Patent Laying-Open No. 5-310469 discloses a high-purity calcia sintered body exhibiting a ratio of 5 to 15 % as to closed pores of 2 to 10 µm in diameter. This gazette states that this sintered body is obtained by mixing a foaming agent such as phenol aldehyde or flammable fine powder such as carbon black into muddy serosity of calcium carbonate and water and calcining the mixture. According to this method, however, residues of the foaming agent or the flammable fine powder remain in the closed pores while it is difficult to hold the shape if the amount of the foaming agent is increased, and hence the closed pore ratio cannot be increased. Porous ceramics having relative density of less than 70 % with a ratio of closed pores of at least 50 % among all pores (1a). The porous ceramics according to claim 1, having relative density of less than 50 % with a ratio of closed pores of at least 90 % among all pores (1a). The porous ceramics according to claim 1, wherein the radii r1 and r2 of a pair of adjacent holes (la) and the width b of a ceramic part (1) satisfy relation (r1 + r2)/b > 1 in an arbitrary section. The porous ceramics according to claim 1, wherein the structural phase consists of ceramics and an oxynitride phase. The porous ceramics according to claim 1, wherein said ceramics contains at least any material selected from a group consisting of silicon nitride, silicon oxide, aluminum nitride and aluminum oxide. A ceramic circuit board having at least a partial insulating layer consisting of the ceramic material according to claim 1. A method of preparing porous ceramics for obtaining porous ceramics (1) by preparing a green compact consisting of metallic powder forming a precursor for the porous ceramics (1) and heat-treating the green compact in reactive gas. The method of preparing porous ceramics according to claim 7, wherein said green compact is heat-treated under microwave irradiation thereby obtaining the porous ceramics (1) consisting of hollowed ceramic grains. The method of preparing porous ceramics according to claim 7, wherein the metallic powder is silicon and the porous ceramics (1) is silicon nitride or silicon oxide. The method of preparing porous ceramics according to claim 7, wherein the metallic powder is aluminum and the porous ceramics (1) is aluminum nitride or aluminum oxide. Porous ceramics consisting of ceramics (1) having surface roughness (Ra) of less than 0.5 µm and porosity of at least 30 %. The porous ceramics according to claim 11, wherein the element forming the surface area of said ceramics (1) includes the element forming the ceramics at a composition ratio different from the internal composition ratio of the ceramics. The porous ceramics according to claim 11, wherein said ceramics (1) contains at least any material selected from a group consisting of alumina, silica, silicon nitride, aluminum nitride and silicon carbide. The porous ceramics according to claim 11, wherein the main phase of said ceramics (1) is silicon nitride with aluminum contained in the surface area of said ceramics. The porous ceramics according to claim 11, formed with a thin film of a metal, an oxide or a nitride on the surface. The porous ceramics according to claim 11, wherein a patterned metallic conductor is formed on the surface. A method of preparing porous ceramics flattening the surface of porous ceramics (1) by working the surface of the porous ceramics (1) having porosity of at least 30 % through solid phase reaction between abrasive grains and the ceramics (1). A microstrip substrate comprising:  The microstrip substrate according to claim 18, wherein said base layer has a glass substrate (17), said metallized layer (15) formed on the surface of said glass substrate (17) and a second metallized layer (19) formed on the back surface of said glass substrate, and    said metallized layer (15) is arranged to be in contact with the back surface of said substrate (1). The microstrip substrate according to claim 18, wherein said ceramic porous body (1) has porosity of at least 50 % with the ratio of closed pores of at least 80 % among all pores (1a). The microstrip substrate according to claim 18, wherein said ceramic porous body (1) is prepared from ceramics including at least any material selected from a group consisting of aluminum oxide, silicon nitride and aluminum nitride. The microstrip substrate according to claim 18, wherein the radii r1 and r2 of a pair of adjacent holes and the width b of a ceramic part (1) satisfy relation (r1 + r2)/b > 1 in an arbitrary section of said ceramic porous body (1). <seperator>EP-1466970-A1<id_sep>subgroupC12N1slash15subgroup classC12class subgroupC12N15slash09subgroup subclassC11Dsubclass subgroupC12N1slash19subgroup subgroupC12N1slash21subgroup subgroupC11D3slash38subgroup subclassC12Nsubclass sectionCsection subgroupC12N9slash52subgroup classC11class subgroupC12N9slash54subgroup subgroupC11D3slash386subgroup Alkaline protease An alkaline protease having an amino acid, wherein one or more amino acid residues selected from among those located at (a) position 63, (b) position 89, (c) position 120, (d) positions 63 and 187, (e) position 226, (f) position 296, (g) position 304 of the amino acid sequence of SEQ NO; 1, or at positions corresponding to these positions are the following amino acid residues, respectively:  The alkaline protease has for example, excellent detergency against complex soil and has improved thermal stability. The present invention relates to an alkaline protease and to a gene encoding the same. Protease has long been used in industry, and has found utility in a diversity of fields, including detergents such as laundry detergents, fiber modifying agents, leather processing agents, cosmetic compositions, bath additives, food-modifying agents, and pharmaceuticals. Of these, proteases for detergent use are produced in the largest amounts on an industrial scale. Examples of such known proteases include Alcalase, Savinase (registered trademarks; Novozymes), Maxacal (registered trademark; Genencor), Blap (registered trademark; Henkel), and KAP (Kao Corporation). The purpose of incorporating protease into a detergent is to degrade protein soil adhering to clothes. Such soil actually is a "complex" soil formed of a plurality of organic and inorganic components, including not only proteins but also lipids originating from sebum, solid particles, and other substances. Therefore, demand has arisen for a detergent having excellent detergency against such complex soil. Under the above situation, some of the present inventors have previously discovered several species of alkaline protease which have a molecular weight of about 43,000, exhibit a sufficient casein-degrading activity even in the presence of a fatty acid at a high concentration, and also exhibit excellent detergency not only to proteins but also to complex soils which include sebum and other substances, and filed a patent application therefor (see Patent Publication WO99/18218). Since the discovered alkaline proteases differ from subtilisin (which is a conventionally known serine protease derived from a microorganism belonging to the genus Incorporating such proteases into a detergent requires several steps, including concentration of a culture, drying, and granulation. Also, deactivation of proteases, which may otherwise occur during storage of the detergent, must be prevented. In addition, researchers have recognized the problem that when a gene coding for such a protease is modified to give mutants having an enhanced specific activity and high production, some of such mutants show thermal stability lower than that of a protease before undergoing mutation. Thus, there has arisen a demand to improve thermal stability of the enzymes to solve the mentioned problems. Accordingly, the present invention provides an alkaline protease which has excellent detergency against complex soil as well as enhanced thermal stability. The present invention provides an alkaline protease having an amino acid sequence wherein one or more amino acid residues selected from those located at (a) position 63, (b) position 89, (c) position 120, (d) positions 63 and 187, (e) position 226, (f) position 296, (g) position 304 of the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1, or at positions corresponding to these positions are the following amino acid residues, respectively: The present invention also provides a gene encoding the alkaline protease. The present invention also provides a vector comprising the gene, and a transformant containing the vector. The present invention also provides a detergent composition containing the above-described alkaline protease.  The present inventors have searched for a new enzyme which is endowed with the characteristics of the aforementioned alkaline protease and also with for example, improved thermal stability, and have found that such an enzyme, which is a certain alkaline protease, requires the presence of specified amino acid residue(s) at specified position(s) of the amino acid sequence of the alkaline protease. An alkaline protease having an amino acid sequence wherein one or more amino acid residues selected from those located at  An alkaline protease having an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 or an amino acid sequence having 80% or higher homology with the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1, wherein one or more amino acid residues selected from those located at (a) position 63, (b) position 89, (c) position 120, (d) positions 63 and 187, (e) position 226, (f) position 296, (g) position 304 of the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:1, or at positions corresponding to these positions are the following amino acid residues, respectively:  A gene encoding the alkaline protease as described in claim 1. The A gene encoding the alkaline protease as described in claim 2. A recombinant vector comprising the gene as described in claim 3. A recombinant vector comprising the gene as described in claim 4. Atransformant comprising the vector as described in claim 5. Atransformant comprising the vector as described in claim 6. The transformant according to claim 7, in which a host is a microorganism. The transformant according to claim 8, in which a host is a microorganism. A detergent composition comprising the alkaline protease as recited in claim 1. A detergent composition comprising the alkaline protease as recited in claim 2. <seperator>EP-1294154-A2<id_sep>classH04class sectionHsection subclassH04Bsubclass subclassH04Jsubclass subclassH04Lsubclass subgroupH04B7slash08subgroup groupH04J11slash00group groupH04B17slash00group subgroupH04L27slash26subgroup OFDM receiving method and apparatus In order to improve upon a degradation in performance due to inter-carrier interference without loss of transmission efficiency, antennas (11 This invention relates to an OFDM receiving method and apparatus. More particularly, the invention relates to an OFDM receiving method and apparatus for receiving a signal multiplexed according to Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing (OFDM) and applying FFT processing to the received signal to demodulate transmit data. In wideband wireless communications, frequency-selective fading due to multipath causes a decline in channel quality. Multicarrier transmission is known as a method of modulation that is highly resistant to multipath fading. The method divides the transmission band into a plurality of (N) carriers (referred to as "subcarriers"), whereby a frequency diversity effect is obtained with respect to frequency-selective fading. This makes it possible to achieve high-quality wireless transmission. In Fig. 23, (a) is a diagram useful in describing a multicarrier transmission scheme. A serial/parallel converter 1 converts serial data to parallel data and inputs the parallel data to quadrature modulators 3a to 3d via low-pass filters 2a to 2d, respectively. In Fig. 23, the serial data is converted to parallel data comprising four symbols. Each symbol is a complex number and includes an in-phase component and a quadrature component. The quadrature modulators 3a to 3d subject each symbol to quadrature modulation by subcarriers having frequencies f1 to f4 illustrated in (b) of Fig. 23, a combiner 4 combines the quadrature-modulated signals and a transmitter (not shown) up-converts the combined signal to a high-frequency signal and then transmits the high-frequency signal. With the multicarrier transmission scheme, the frequencies are arranged, as shown in (b) of Fig. 23, in such a manner that the spectrums will not overlap in order to satisfy the orthogonality of the subcarriers. Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing (OFDM) is one mode of multicarrier transmission, in which frequency spacing is arranged so as to null the correlation between a modulation band signal transmitted by an nth subcarrier of multicarrier transmission and a modulation band signal transmitted by an (n+1)th subcarrier. In Fig. 24, (a) is a block diagram of an apparatus on the transmitting side based upon the OFDM scheme. The apparatus includes a serial/parallel converter 5 for converting serial data (in)to parallel data comprising a plurality of (e.g., N) symbols (I+jQ, which is a complex number). An IFFT (Inverse Fast Fourier Transform) arithmetic unit 6, which is for the purpose of transmitting the symbols as subcarriers having a frequency spacing shown in (b) of Fig. 24, applies an inverse fast Fourier transform to the frequency data to effect a conversion to a time signal in which subcarrier frequency components have been multiplexed, and inputs the real and imaginary parts to a quadrature modulator 8 through low-pass filters 7a, 7b. The quadrature modulator 8 subjects the input data to quadrature modulation, and a transmitter (not shown) up-converts the modulated signal to a high-frequency signal. On the receiving side, N symbols (OFDM symbols) that have been transmitted by N subcarriers are demodulated and output by an operation that is the reverse of the operation performed on the transmitting side (i.e., by a time-to-frequency conversion using FFT). An OFDM receiving method for receiving a signal multiplexed according to Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing (OFDM) and applying FFT processing to the received signal to demodulate transmit data, comprising the steps of:  An OFDM receiving method for receiving a signal multiplexed according to Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing (OFDM) and applying FFT processing to the received signal to demodulate transmit data, comprising the steps of:  The method according to claim 2, wherein the average value is attenuated and fading variation in the multipath environment is compensated based upon a value obtained by attenuation. The method according to claim 1, wherein a directional antenna for which Doppler spread is minimum is selected from among directional antennas for which reception power exceeds a threshold value of power. The method according to claim 2 or 3, further comprising the steps of:  An OFDM receiving method for receiving a signal multiplexed according to Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing (OFDM) and applying FFT processing to the received signal to demodulate transmit data, comprising the steps of:  The method according to any preceding claim, wherein correlation between the receive signal and a known signal is calculated and the average value of fading variation in the multipath environment is calculated based upon a correlation vector obtained. The method according to any of claims 1 to 6, wherein correlation between the receive signal and a receive signal one OFDM symbol time earlier is calculated and the average value of fading variation in the multipath environment is calculated based upon a correlation vector obtained. An OFDM receiving apparatus for receiving a signal multiplexed according to Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing (OFDM) and applying FFT processing to the received signal to demodulate transmit data, comprising:  An OFDM receiving apparatus for receiving a signal multiplexed according to Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing (OFDM) and applying FFT processing to the received signal to demodulate transmit data, comprising:  The apparatus according to claim 10, further comprising an attenuator for attenuating the average value by multiplying the average value by a weighting coefficient;    wherein fading variation in the multipath environment is compensated based upon the average value that has been attenuated. The apparatus according to claim 10 or 11, further comprising a reception-power measurement unit for measuring reception signal power of the directional antennas;    wherein said directional antenna selecting unit selects a directional antenna for which Doppler spread is minimum from among directional antennas for which reception power exceeds a threshold value of power. The apparatus according to claim 12, wherein the directional antenna for which the Doppler spread is minimum is an antenna whose directivity coincides with direction of moving of the mobile body. The apparatus according to claim 10, 11, 12, or 13, further comprising a velocity comparator for comparing velocity of the mobile state and a set velocity;    wherein said directional antenna selecting unit combines receive signals from each of the directional antennas when the mobile body is moving at a velocity lower than the threshold velocity, and selects a directional antenna based upon reception power and/or Doppler spread when the mobile body is moving at a velocity equal to or greater than the threshold velocity; and    wherein said fading-variation calculation unit halts fading compensation when the mobile body is moving at a velocity lower than the threshold velocity, and performs the fading compensation when the mobile body is moving at a velocity equal to or greater than the threshold velocity. An OFDM receiving apparatus for receiving a signal multiplexed according to Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing (OFDM) and applying FFT processing to the received signal to demodulate transmit data, comprising:  The apparatus according to any of claims 9 to 15, wherein said fading-variation calculation unit calculates correlation between the receive signal and a known signal and calculates the average value of fading variation in the multipath environment based upon a correlation vector obtained. The apparatus according to any of claims 9 to 15, wherein said fading-variation calculation unit calculates correlation between the receive signal and a receive signal one OFDM symbol time earlier and calculates the average value of fading variation in the multipath environment based upon a correlation vector obtained. <seperator>EP-1227535-A1<id_sep>subgroupH01P1slash213subgroup subgroupH01P1slash212subgroup sectionHsection classH01class subgroupH01P1slash205subgroup subgroupH01P1slash20subgroup subclassH01Psubclass Dielectric duplexer and communication apparatus A dielectric duplexer includes a substantially rectangular dielectric block (1). The dielectric block includes inner-conductor-containing holes (2a - 2f) each having an inner conductor (3a - 3f) on the inner surfaces thereof, and inner-conductor-unformed portions (4a - 4f) on which the inner conductors (3a - 3f) are not formed are formed in the vicinity of first ends of the inner-conductor-containing holes (2a - 2f). The dielectric block (1) further includes an outer conductor (5) and input/output electrodes (6, 7, 8) which are formed on the outer surface thereof, and the input/output electrodes (6, 7, 8) are separated from the outer conductor (5). A through-hole (9) having a short circuited electrode (10) formed on the inner surface thereof is provided between two (2d, 2c) of the inner-conductor-containing holes (2a, 2f) so as to run from the mounting surface to the surface opposite thereto.  BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to a dielectric duplexer mainly used in the microwave band, and a communication apparatus using the same. A typical dielectric duplexer is described with reference to Fig. 11. Fig. 11 is a perspective view of the appearance of a typical dielectric duplexer. Referring to Fig. 11, a substantially rectangular dielectric block 1 includes inner-conductor-containing holes 2a to 2f having inner conductors 3a to 3f formed on the inner surfaces thereof, respectively, and an outer conductor 5 formed on the entire outer surface thereof. Inner-conductor-unformed portions 4a to 4f on which the inner conductors 3a to 3f are not formed are formed in the vicinity of first ends of the inner-conductor-containing holes 2a to 2f, and the first ends are open. Second ends that are opposite to the first ends are short circuited. Thus, dielectric resonators are constructed. Each of the inner-conductor-containing holes 2a to 2f is stepped so that the open end side has a larger inner diameter than the short circuited end side. On the outer surface of the dielectric block 1, input/output electrodes 6 and 7, which are separated from the outer conductor 5, are formed so as to extend from the end surfaces in the alignment direction of the inner-conductor-containing holes 2a to 2f to the mounting surface that faces the mounting substrate. On the outer surface of the dielectric block 1, an input/output electrode 8, which is separated from the outer conductor 5, is further formed between the inner-conductor-containing holes 2c and 2d so as to extend from the open end surface of the inner-conductor-containing holes 2a to 2f to the mounting surface. With this structure, a first group of the inner-conductor-containing holes 2a to 2c, and a second group of the inner-conductor-containing holes 2d to 2f each form a three-stage dielectric filter having a coupling capacitor, thereby forming a dielectric duplexer as a whole. Specifically, the dielectric block 1, the inner conductors 2a to 2f, and the outer conductor 5 constitute TEM (transverse electromagnetic) mode resonators, and the TEM mode resonators are combline-coupled with each other by means of stray capacitance generated in the inner-conductor-unformed portions 4a to 4f to form dielectric filters. The plurality of dielectric filters are combined to form a dielectric duplexer. The dielectric duplexer has attenuation poles (coupling poles) because of coupling between the resonators. The attenuation poles can be used to provide a sharp attenuation characteristic from the pass band to the cut-off band near a low frequency region or from the pass band to the cut-off band near a high frequency region. However, such a typical dielectric duplexer has encountered a problem to be overcome. In a dielectric duplexer having a substantially rectangular dielectric block and an outer conductor formed on the outer surface thereof, a resonance mode other than a basic resonance mode or a TEM mode, including a TE In order to overcome such a problem, approaches which have been contemplated are (1) to modify the dimensions of a dielectric duplexer to offset the resonant frequency of a TE mode, and (2) to separately provide a transmission filter and a reception filter which are combined so that the influence of a TE mode on the dielectric duplexer may be reduced. A dielectric duplexer comprising:  A dielectric duplexer according to Claim 1, wherein said dielectric block (1) includes an excitation hole (11) for an antenna, and said at least one short circuited conductor (10) intersects said excitation hole (11). A dielectric duplexer according to claim 1 or 2, wherein said dielectric block (1) is a substantially rectangular block. A communication apparatus comprising a dielectric duplexer according to any of Claims 1 to 3. <seperator>EP-1502943-A1<id_sep>subgroupC11D3slash37subgroup subclassC11Dsubclass subgroupC11D3slash22subgroup sectionCsection classC11class groupC11D17slash00group subgroupC11D3slash20subgroup Aqueous liquid cleaning composition comprising visible beads The present invention relates to a pourable cleaning composition comprising a plurality of stably suspended, visibly distinct beads, and at least two structurants selected from different groups of structurant. Field of the Invention The present invention relates to aqueous cleaning compositions comprising visible beads and at least two structurants. The structurants of the invention are selected from at least two different groups of compounds. Background of the Invention The commercial marketing of cleaning products often involves the use of distinctive product aesthetics to help differentiate one given product from other commercially available products of the same general type. Colored, e.g., dyed or pigmented, particles such as speckles or beads are sometimes used to create such distinctiveness. Generally, distinct particles in cleaning products should be larger than 200 microns to be easily visible to the consumer. The presence of visibly distinct particles such as beads in cleaning products can provide a signal to the consumer that the product has been changed and improved from previously marketed or available products without such beads. Thus, such a signal can serve to indicate that altered, new and/or additional cleaning ingredients have been added to the product or that the product contains ingredients which alter the overall experience of using the product. Such new or additional ingredients may actually be incorporated into the visible beads themselves or may simply be incorporated into the liquid matrix of the product with their presence signaled by the beads. If new and/or additional composition components are incorporated into the visibly distinct beads, such beads may then serve the additional purpose of helping to stabilize or protect such incorporated product ingredients from interaction with or degradation by other components of the composition. If beads are used for this purpose, the beads must be constructed so as to partially or completely isolate the carried materials from any other components in the composition which might be incompatible with such carried ingredients. Moreover, such beads must also be able to suitably release their carried ingredient into the wash liquor when the composition is used for its cleaning purpose. In a granular cleaning composition context, suspension of visible particles in the product is fairly straightforward. This is because the formulator is free to chose visibly distinct, e.g., dyed or pigmented, particles which can be matched in density and particle size to the bulk granular detergent. Such particles are easily dispersed throughout the granular matrix, and there is little likelihood of destructive interaction between the visible particles and the other matrix ingredients. In a liquid cleaning composition context, however, and especially with respect to aqueous liquid compositions, it is a challenge to stably suspend particles in liquid products during manufacture, shipping, storage and during use. The formulator must use beads which are both relatively insoluble in the aqueous liquid matrix and are strong enough to withstand the rigors of commercial scale composition preparation, shipping and distribution. Preferred suspension of the beads in liquid matrices also requires suitable formulation of the aqueous liquid matrix of the product. To stably suspend beads, liquid compositions should ideally be "structured" so that the liquid portion thereof has suitable rheological characteristics to maintain the beads suspended within the composition and prevent them settling to the bottom of the container. Thus the matrix rheology must be such that it is sufficiently viscous that the beads do not settle out of the product upon prolonged storage yet not so viscous that the product cannot be readily poured. It is therefore preferred that the "structurant" materials which are added to the composition would be ones which impart "shear-thinning "characteristics to the matrix without creating any aesthetic or other difficulties such as opacity, instability or unacceptable expense. A cleaning composition in the form of a pourable, externally-structured, aqueous liquid matrix having dispersed therein a plurality of stably suspended, visibly distinct beads, said composition comprising;  A composition according to Claim 1 wherein an active ingredient of the cleaning composition is incorporated on or within said beads. A composition according to any preceding claim wherein said beads are stably suspended within said aqueous liquid matrix by means of adjustment of bead density, matrix rheology or both. A composition according to any preceding claim wherein the beads are made from agar. A composition according to any of claims 1 to 3 wherein said beads are formed from an anionic polymeric material surrounded by a semi-permeable membrane formed by reacting said anionic polymeric material with a cationic polymeric material. A composition according to any of Claims 1 to 3 wherein said beads are formed from a cationic polymeric material surrounded by a semi-permeable membrane formed by reacting said cationic polymeric material with an anionic polymeric material. A composition according to any of Claims 5 or 6 wherein said beads are prepared by a process which comprises mechanical or air-assisted cutting of a fluid jet stream formed from a bead core solution containing one of said anionic or cationic bead polymeric components, to thereby form droplets which are subsequently cured in a curing bath containing the oppositely charged polymeric material. A composition according to any preceding claim wherein said beads have an average diameter ranging from 0.2 to 8 millimeters, preferably from 0.3 to 3 millimeters. A composition according to any preceding claim wherein said beads have an average burst strength of from 20 mN to 20,000 mN, preferably from 50 mN to 15,000 mN. A composition according to any preceding claim wherein the first structurant is selected from one or more compounds of the formulas: R1OCH2CH(OR2)CH2OR3 or R5C(O)-OM; or mixtures thereof; wherein, in these formulas, R1 is -C(O)R4; R2 is R1 or H; R3 is R1 or H; R4 is independently C10-22 alkyl or alkenyl comprising at least one hydroxyl; R5 is -C(O)-R4; and M is Na+, K+, Mg++, Al3+, or H. A composition according to Claim 10 wherein said first structurant is a structurant of the formula:  wherein:  A composition according to any preceding claim wherein the first structurant is selected from the group consisting of crystalline, hydrogenated castor oil or a crystalline, hydrogenated castor oil derivative and mixtures thereof. A composition according to any preceding claim wherein the second structurant is selected from gellan gum, guar gum, xanthan gum, gum Arabic and combinations thereof. A composition according to any preceding claim wherein said composition is transparent or translucent. <seperator>EP-1330141-A2<id_sep>classH04class subclassH04Wsubclass sectionHsection subgroupH04W36slash26subgroup groupH04W36slash00group Radio control apparatus and link securing method A radio control apparatus 10 is provided with a call management system 18 configured so that, when a mobile station in communication with a first base station by a first communication link requests diversity handover with a second base station, the call management system 18 retrieves a potential information rate that is not higher than an information rate of the first communication link and that is highest, from an information rate table 31 storing information about information rates of communication links securable in the second base station under other radio control apparatus; and a link management system 20 configured so that, when the potential information rate is lower than that of the first communication link, the link management system 20 instructs the first base station to change the first communication link to a second communication link communicable at the potential information rate; the call management system 18 requests the other radio control apparatus to secure a third communication link communicable at the potential information rate and to instruct the second base station to perform communication with the mobile station by the third communication link.  BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Field of the Invention The present invention relates to a radio control apparatus and a link securing method for securing a communication link between a mobile station and a base station of a handover destination when the mobile station performs handover in a mobile communication system. Related Background Art In the mobile communication systems adopting the CDMA (Code Division Multiple Access) system, a mobile station simultaneously establishes communications with a base station of a handover source and with a base station of a handover destination on the occasion of handover, so as to perform diversity reception, thereby achieving improvement in communication quality and non-break communication during the handover (for example, refer to Japanese Patent Application Laid-Open No. 2001-251658). This handover technology is called diversity handover and, in general, a communication link is secured as below between the mobile station and the base station of the handover destination. The mobile station receives pilot channels sent from the respective base stations of the handover source and the handover destination, and requests the diversity handover with inclusion of the base station of the handover destination when a difference between received powers from the two base stations becomes not more than a predetermined threshold. In response thereto, the radio control apparatus in charge of the base station of the handover destination secures a communication link of the same information rate as the communication link used in communication between the mobile station and the base station of the handover source, for communication between the mobile station and the base station of the handover destination. This is because the information rates of the respective communication links need to be synchronized with each other in the diversity handover. However, if there occurs traffic congestion at the base station of the handover destination, the radio control apparatus might fail to secure the foregoing communication link in certain cases. In such cases, the mobile station repeats the request for diversity handover, and the problem of disconnection of communication will arise if no communication link is secured with the base station of the handover destination even after repetitive requests and if migration of the mobile station finally results in the cell of the base station of the handover destination becoming the first cell (a cell where the reception level of the pilot channel is maximum). SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION The present invention has been accomplished in view of the above circumstances and an object of the present invention is to provide a radio control apparatus and a link securing method capable of increasing the rate of securing the communication link between the mobile station and the base station of the handover destination when the mobile station performs handover in the mobile communication system. In order to achieve the above object, a radio control apparatus according to the present invention is a radio control apparatus for achieving diversity handover in accordance with a request, which is sent from a mobile station in communication with a first base station by use of a first communication link, for diversity handover with a second base station, the radio control apparatus comprising: managing means for managing an information rate table in which information about information rates of communication links securable in the second base station is stored; retrieving means for retrieving as a potential information rate a information rate not higher than an information rate of the first communication link, out of the information rates of the securable communication links from the information rate table on the occasion of receiving the request for diversity handover with the second base station from the mobile station; instructing means for instructing the first base station to change the first communication link to a second communication link communicable at the potential information rate when the potential information rate thus retrieved is lower than the information rate of the first communication link; and requesting means for requesting the second base station to perform communication with the mobile station by use of a third communication link communicable at the potential information rate. A radio control apparatus for achieving diversity handover in accordance with a request, which is sent from a mobile station in communication with a first base station by use of a first communication link, for diversity handover with a second base station, said radio control apparatus comprising:  The radio control apparatus according to Claim 1, wherein information about whether a communication link is securable or not securable at each information rate is stored in the information rate table, and    wherein said managing means operates as follows:  The radio control apparatus according to Claim 2, wherein, when an information rate set as not securable is present in the information rate table,    the retrieving means retrieves as the potential information rate a highest information rate out of information rates lower than a minimum of the information rate set as not securable, and not higher than the information rate of the first communication link. The radio control apparatus according to Claim 2, wherein, when an information rate set as not securable is present in the information rate table, and the information rate set as not securable is not higher than the information rate of the first communication link,    the retrieving means retrieves as the potential information rate a lowest information rate out of information rates stored in the information rate table. A link securing method executed in a radio control apparatus for achieving diversity handover in accordance with a request, which is sent from a mobile station in communication with a first base station by use of a first communication link, for diversity handover with a second base station,    said radio control apparatus comprising an information rate table in which information about information rates of communication links securable at the second base station is stored,    said link securing method comprising:  The link securing method according to Claim 5, wherein information about whether a communication link is securable or not securable at each information rate is stored in the information rate table,    said link securing method further comprising:  The link securing method according to Claim 6, wherein, when an information rate set as not securable is present in the information rate table,    the retrieving step is to retrieve as the potential information rate a highest information rate out of information rates lower than a minimum of the information rate set as not securable, and not higher than the information rate of the first communication link. The link securing method according to Claim 6, wherein, when an information rate set as not securable is present in the information rate table, and the information rate set as not securable is not higher than the information rate of the first communication link,    the retrieving step is to retrieve as the potential information rate a lowest information rate out of information rates stored in the information rate table. <seperator>EP-1460490-A1<id_sep>groupB32B27slash00group subgroupG03G15slash20subgroup sectionBsection sectionGsection subgroupB32B27slash30subgroup subclassB32Bsubclass classG03class subclassG03Gsubclass classB32class Fluorosilicone release agent for fluoroelastomer fuser members A fuser member having a substrate, an outer fluoroelastomer layer having  one of i) copolymers of two of vinylidene fluoride, hexafluoropropylene and  tetrafluoroethylene; ii) terpolymers of vinylidene fluoride, hexafluoropropylene and  tetrafluoroethylene; and iii) tetrapolymers of vinylidene fluoride,  hexafluoropropylene, tetrafluoroethylene, and a cure site monomer; and a  fluorinated silicone release agent.    Attention should be given to the following co-pending patent applications, Attorney Docket Reference D/A1530Q, U.S. Patent Application, Serial Number ---------, filed -------, entitled, "Blended Fluorosilicone Release Agent for Polymeric Fuser Members;" and Attorney Docket Reference D/A1530QQ, U.S. Patent Application, Serial Number ---------, filed -------, entitled, "Blended Fluorosilicone Release Agent for Silicone Fuser Members These applications are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.  The present invention relates to fuser members useful in electrostatographic reproducing apparatuses, including digital, image on image, and contact electrostatic printing apparatuses. The present fuser members can be used as fuser members, pressure members, transfuse or transfix members, and the like. In an embodiment, the fuser members comprise an outer layer comprising a fluoroelastomer. In embodiments, the fluoroelastomer is selected from the group consisting of a) copolymers of two of vinylidene fluoride, hexafluoropropylene, and tetrafluoroethylene; b) terpolymers of vinylidene fluoride, hexafluoropropylene and tetrafluoroethylene; and c) tetrapolymers of vinylidene fluoride, hexafluoropropylene, tetrafluoroethylene and a cure site monomer. In embodiments, the release agent is a fluorosilicone release agent. In embodiments, the fluorosilicone release agent has pendant fluorocarbon groups. In a typical electrostatographic reproducing apparatus, a light image of an original to be copied is recorded in the form of an electrostatic latent image upon a photosensitive member, and the latent image is subsequently rendered visible by the application of electroscopic thermoplastic resin particles and pigment particles, or toner. The visible toner image is then in a loose powdered form and can be easily disturbed or destroyed. The toner image is usually fixed or fused upon a support, which may be the photosensitive member itself, or other support sheet such as plain paper. The use of thermal energy for fixing toner images onto a support member is well known. To fuse electroscopic toner material onto a support surface permanently by heat, it is usually necessary to elevate the temperature of the toner material to a point at which the constituents of the toner material coalesce and become tacky. This heating causes the toner to flow to some extent into the fibers or pores of the support member. Thereafter, as the toner material cools, solidification of the toner material causes the toner material to be firmly bonded to the support. Typically, the thermoplastic resin particles are fused to the substrate by heating to a temperature of between about 90° C to about 200° C or higher depending upon the softening range of the particular resin used in the toner. It may be undesirable; however, to increase the temperature of the substrate substantially higher than about 250° C because of the tendency of the substrate to discolor or convert into fire at such elevated temperatures, particularly when the substrate is paper. Several approaches to thermal fusing of electroscopic toner images have been described. These methods include providing the application of heat and pressure substantially concurrently by various means, a roll pair maintained in pressure contact, a belt member in pressure contact with a roll, a belt member in pressure contact with a heater, and the like. Heat may be applied by heating one or both of the rolls, plate members, or belt members. The fusing of the toner particles takes place when the proper combinations of heat, pressure and contact time are provided. The balancing of these parameters to bring about the fusing of the toner particles is well known in the art, and can be adjusted to suit particular machines or process conditions. A fuser member comprising   The fuser member of claim 1, wherein m is a number of from about 1 to  about 10.  The fuser member of claim 1 or 2, wherein n is a number of from about  2 to about 12.  The fuser member of any of claims 1 to 3, wherein x/(x + y) is from  about 4 percent to about 20 percent.  The fuser member of any of claims 1 to 4, wherein the release agent is  one having the following Formula III:       wherein x/(x + y) is about 7.3 percent.  The fuser member of any of claims 1 to 5, wherein the fluoroelastomer  is a tetrapolymer of vinylidene fluoride, hexafluoropropylene, tetrafluoroethylene,  and a cure site monomer.  The fuser member of any of claims 1 to 6, wherein said outer layer  comprises in addition to said fluoroelastomer, a fluoropolymer selected from the  group consisting of polytetrafluoroethylene and perfluoroalkoxy.  The fuser member of any of claims 1 to 7, wherein the fluorinated  silicone release agent has a viscosity of from about 75 to about 1,500 cS.  The fuser member of any of claims 1 to 8, wherein said release agent  material coating further comprises a non-functional silicone oil blended with said  fluorinated silicone release agent.  An image forming apparatus for forming images on a recording  medium comprising:   <seperator>EP-1329574-A1<id_sep>groupE05B1slash00group groupE05B15slash00group subclassE05Bsubclass sectionEsection groupE05B13slash00group subgroupE05B15slash16subgroup subclassE05Csubclass subgroupE05B13slash10subgroup subgroupE05C9slash04subgroup classE05class groupE05C9slash00group A locking device A locking device comprises a driving handle (3) associated with a support structure (2) which, through transmission means, carries out displacement of locking means (4) between a locked condition and a unlocked condition of the device; the motion-transmitting means (5) includes a rotating body (6) controlled in motion by the driving element (3) and a transmission structure (7) interposed between the rotating body (6) and said locking means (4) to enable displacement of the locking means, following movement of the rotating body (6), at least between the locked condition and the unlocked condition.  The present invention relates to a locking device. In particular such a locking device is preferably adapted for used on doors or panels of wardrobes, metal cabinets or lockers. It is however apparent that application of the locking device to other typologies of doors or panels is also possible depending on current requirements. It is known that there are on the marked and have been widely spread many types of locking devices in particular designed for metal cabinets or lockers to hold electric and/or electronic apparatus. For instance, known and widely marketed is a locking device of the type disclosed in patent EP 261 267 in which a support structure rigidly fastened to a door sheet metal supports a driving handle movable in rotation about its hinging axis on the cabinet frame. A rotation from the rest position of the handle involves a rotatory movement of a pinion gear rigidly associated with the handle which meshes with corresponding slots present in a closing bar involving a translation of said bar parallel to the panel plane. By this movement the bar engages or disengages the corresponding cabinet jamb enabling selective opening of the cabinet door. By a cylinder lock placed on the handle below the rotation axis and rigidly associated with said handle, rotation of the handle and consequent opening of the cabinet door is prevented. While locking devices in accordance with the known art are still widely spread and marketed, they however have some drawbacks, operating limits and/or improvable aspects. In fact, taking into account the typology of coupling between the closing bars and pinion gear, surely a rigid observance of the construction tolerances is required, and important problems in terms of stress and fatigue resistance are to be tackled. It is apparent that a lack of precision in the manufacture of the pinion and rack surely brings about a faulty and inaccurate operation of the opening device and unmeshing of the pinion teeth could even involve no operation of the whole locking device. Also critical are the efforts transmitted to the transmission members during the opening/closing step of the door because these forces are often exactly concentrated on the pinion teeth. Under this situation it is often necessary to make these components of metal materials or at all events stress-resistant materials; obviously, due to this technical specification the device costs are higher. Accordingly, it is an aim of the present invention to substantially solve the above mentioned drawbacks. The present invention aims at providing a locking device equipped with a new and different movement-transmitting system. It is another aim of the invention to ensure a reliable coupling over time and easy assembling and setting up of the device itself. Finally, it is a further aim of the invention to enable manufacture of all components forming the locking device made of plastic materials for example, through simple moulding operations. The foregoing and further aims that will become more apparent in the course of the present description are substantially achieved by a locking device as disclosed in the appended claims. A locking device comprising:  A locking device as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that the locking means (4) comprises:  A device as claimed in anyone of the preceding claims, characterized in that the transmission structure (7) is interposed between and separable from the rotating body (6) and the locking means (4) and is able to convert a substantially rotatory motion of the rotating body (6) into a substantially translational motion of the locking means (4), said transmission structure (7) being preferably adapted to transmit thrust actions to the locking means (4) during displacement of same to the locked condition and transmit pulling actions to the locking means (4) during displacement of same to the unlocked condition. A device as claimed in anyone of the preceding claims, characterized in that the transmission structure (7) is a deformable structure the geometry of which varies from the locked condition to the unlocked condition of the locking means (4), preferably the transmission structure (7) showing a median axis which is mainly straight and in the extension of the axis of the slidable arm (8) in the locked condition of the locking means, and a median axis which is bent around the rotating body (6) in the unlocked condition of the locking means (4). A device as claimed in anyone of the preceding claims, characterized in that the transmission structure (7) comprises a predetermined number of articulated elements (10) hinged on each other, the first one of said articulated elements being hinged on the rotating body (6) and the last one of said articulated elements being hinged on the locking means (4). A device as claimed in anyone of the preceding claims, characterized in that the driving element (3) is movable in rotation from the first to the second operating conditions about an axis (11) which is substantially coincident with the rotation axis of the rotating body (6). A device as claimed in anyone of the preceding claims,characterized in that the support structure (2) has conveniently shaped seats (12, 13) set to receive and guide the rotating body (6) and transmission structure (7) respectively, during movement. A device as claimed in anyone of the preceding claims, characterized in that it comprises two transmission structures (7) in engagement with the rotating body (6) at opposite positions of said body. A device as claimed in anyone of the preceding claims, characterized in that the support structure (2) comprises a first and a second shell halves (14, 15) set to be coupled together to define a housing cavity for the transmission means (5), preferably the shaped seats (12, 13) being defined on at least one of said shell halves (14, 15). A device as claimed in the preceding claim, characterized in that the support structure (2) comprises a centring body (16) provided with appropriate shoulders (17) suitable for coupling with a first substantially mating hole (18) of a sheet metal (19), preferably said centring body (16) being separated from and susceptible of coupling with one of the shell halves (14, 15) and with said base element (20), the centring body (16) and base element (20) being on opposite sides from the sheet metal (19), in the assembled condition. A cabinet provided with sheet metal doors comprising a locking device as claimed in one or more of the preceding claims. <seperator>EP-1239127-A1<id_sep>subgroupF02D41slash12subgroup subgroupF02N11slash04subgroup sectionFsection subclassF02Dsubclass classF02class subclassF02Nsubclass subgroupF01N3slash20subgroup subclassF01Nsubclass classF01class Method and system for providing an electrically heated catalyst with electrical power from an integrated starter-alternator A method and system for distributing electrical energy from an integrated starter-alternator during a deceleration or overrun vehicle condition to an electrically heated catalyst in order to maintain the temperature of the electrically heated catalyst within an operating temperature range during the deceleration or overrun vehicle condition. TECHNICAL FIELD The present invention relates generally to internal combustion engines operable for discharging exhaust gas to electrically heated catalysts and, more particularly, to a method and system for distributing electrical energy from an integrated starter-alternator during a deceleration or overrun vehicle condition to an electrically heated catalyst in order to maintain the temperature of the electrically heated catalyst within an operating temperature range. BACKGROUND ART For a typical vehicle powered by a sparked ignited internal combustion engine, two of the most difficult operating conditions for controlling exhaust emissions are deceleration and overrun. During vehicle deceleration, the engine is producing very little power and is being partly motored by the vehicle. "Overrun" is an expression that also describes a deceleration condition, but additionally may describe a condition where a vehicle is coasting down a sustained downgrade with the engine being partly motored by the vehicle. Herein, "overrun" will be used to include the deceleration condition. In either case, the engine load is very light and the percentage of internal exhaust gas recirculation (EGR) is high. Both of these factors contribute to marginal combustion stability. This results in high engine out hydrocarbon (HC) emissions and cool exhaust gas temperatures. The low exhaust gas temperatures are particularly a problem for the catalyst which are often not hot enough to keep the catalyst active. The engine calibrator is faced with either of two options each of which has its own drawbacks. The first option is to leave the fuel injection enabled during the overrun. In this case the cool exhaust temperature will cool the catalyst causing it to become inefficient or even inactive. This allows hydrocarbons to accumulate in the catalyst or exit the tailpipe untreated. This problem is exacerbated by combustion stability being marginal under this condition. Hence, the engine out HC emissions tend to be exceptionally high. Once the engine comes back under load after a sustained overrun condition, the catalyst must be heated by the hot exhaust gas for the catalyst to become active and efficient again. Until that happens, untreated hydrocarbons will leave the tailpipe. In addition, the unburned hydrocarbons which accumulated in the catalyst during the overrun can create a run away thermal reaction once the engine comes under load again. This can either shorten the life of the catalyst or destroy the catalyst. Another compromise with this option is that spark advance is typically retarded during an overrun condition. This is an attempt to keep the catalyst hot by initiating combustion late thereby increasing exhaust gas temperature. However, this compromises combustion efficiency and increases fuel consumption. The second option is to disable the fuel injection during the overrun condition. This prevents unburned hydrocarbons from accumulating in the catalyst. However, the engine is now being motored completely by the vehicle and pumps cool ambient air through the catalyst which cools the catalyst. When the vehicle comes off of the overrun condition and the fuel injection is enabled again, the catalyst temperature may be close to ambient and will have to be reheated a great amount before becoming active again. During this time interval when the catalyst is warming up large amounts of untreated hydrocarbons may escape out of the tailpipe. An exhaust system for a motor vehicle having an internal combustion engine, the exhaust system comprising:  The exhaust system of claim 1 further comprising:  The exhaust system of claim 1 further comprising:  The exhaust system of claim 1 further comprising:  A motor vehicle comprising:  The motor vehicle of claim 5 further comprising:  The motor vehicle of claim 5 further comprising:  The motor vehicle of claim 5 further comprising:  A method for cleaning exhaust gas generated by an internal combustion engine of a motor vehicle during vehicle overrun, the method comprising:  The method of claim 9 wherein:  The method of claim 9 further comprising:  The method of claim 9 further comprising:  <seperator>EP-1840096-A1<id_sep>subgroupC07C65slash21subgroup sectionBsection groupC07C63slash00group subgroupC07C59slash70subgroup groupC07C65slash00group subclassC07Csubclass subgroupB32B17slash10subgroup subgroupB32B17slash06subgroup classC03class sectionGsection groupC07C69slash00group classG02class subgroupC07C63slash04subgroup subgroupC03C27slash12subgroup classB60class subclassB60Jsubclass classC07class subgroupC07C53slash124subgroup groupC07C53slash00group groupB60J1slash00group subgroupC07C51slash41subgroup subclassC03Csubclass subgroupC07C69slash80subgroup subclassG02Bsubclass sectionCsection subclassB32Bsubclass groupC07C59slash00group subgroupG02B5slash22subgroup classB32class INTERMEDIATE FILM OF LAMINATED SAFETY GLASS WITH ANTIGLARE FUNCTION AND NOVEL NEODYMIUM COMPOUND [PROBLEMS] To impart an antiglare effect to a laminated glass making use of a polyvinyl butyral resin as an intermediate film without coloring the same. [MEANS FOR SOLVING PROBLEMS] There is provided an intermediate film of laminated glass, comprised of a resin composition containing a polyvinyl butyral resin, a plasticizer and a neodymium compound compatible with plasticized resin. The neodymium compound is preferably a neodymium salt of one or more types of polyvalent ester monocarboxylic acids, or a mixed neodymium salt of a polyvalent ester monocarboxylic acid and an aliphatic or aromatic monocarboxylic acid. TECHNICAL FIELD The present invention relates generally to an intermediate film for use in transparent laminated safety glass having selective light absorption and a production method thereof, and more specifically relates to an intermediate film for use in laminated safety glass comprising neodymium (III) blended into a plasticized polyvinyl butyral. Furthermore, the present invention relates to a novel neodymium compound preferable for use in the production of the above intermediate film and a production method thereof. BACKGROUND ART Laminated glass having an intermediate film consisting of a thermoplastic resin such as polyvinyl butyral sandwiched between a pair of glass panels is often used as glass for automobiles or construction materials such as for front doors. While such laminated glass is safe because shards of glass will not be scattered even upon receiving an impact from an external source, its high transparency can pose a problem, for example, when used as the glass for an automobile, since sunlight, illumination or the headlights of oncoming cars can cause glare in the driver's eyes. As methods of preventing glare in such laminated glass, there are methods of reducing the light using colored glass or colored intermediate films. However, when applying these light reducing methods to automobile glass, the anti-glare effect is achieved, but this can be accompanied by reduced visibility at night due to the reduced light, thus actually increasing the risk. In order to solve these problems, the glare due to rays of the sun or reflection from the road surface is often prevented by providing a colored strip on the top portion or bottom portion of an automobile's windshield (Patent Document 1). For example, Patent Document 1 describes that an aesthetic effect and an anti-glare effect against reflections from the road surface particularly during the day can be achieved by providing a colored strip containing an organic or inorganic pigment at the bottom portion of the windshield (paragraph 0008). However, the central portion of the windshield which takes up almost the entire field of view of the driver is left transparent, so that the anti-glare effect cannot be achieved, in particular, for the headlights of oncoming cars at night. Patent Document 1: DISCLOSURE OF THE INVENTION Problems to be Solved by the Invention The present invention has the purpose of offering an intermediate film for laminated glass and laminated glass using said intermediate film, which solves the problems of laminated glass using conventional polyvinyl butyral resins as the intermediate film, appearing the same as uncolored, transparent laminated glass even at nighttime, and capable of providing an anti-glare effect against the headlights of oncoming cars at nighttime when used for the glass in automobiles. Furthermore, the present invention has the purpose of offering a novel neodymium compound suitable for use in the production of the above-described intermediate film, and a method of production thereof. Means for Solving the Problems As means for solving the above problems, the present inventors focused on the spectral absorption properties of neodymium (III) compounds, and performed diligent research toward mixing and dissolving neodymium (III) compounds into intermediate films containing polyvinyl butyral, thereby achieving the present invention. An intermediate film for use in laminated glass,  An intermediate film in accordance with claim 1, wherein the neodymium compound is a neodymium salt of a polyvalent ester monocarboxylic acid. An intermediate film in accordance with claim 1 or 2, wherein the neodymium salt of a polyvalent ester monocarboxylic acid is represented by the following formula (1):           [(R An intermediate film in accordance with claim 3, wherein the neodymium salt of a polyvalent ester monocarboxylic acid is a neodymium salt of at least two polyvalent ester monocarboxylic acids. An intermediate film in accordance with any one of claims 1-4, wherein said resin composition contains 100 parts by weight of polyvinyl butyral, 20-100 parts by weight of the plasticizer and 1-40 parts by weight of the neodymium salt of a polyvalent ester monocarboxylic acid. A laminated glass  A neodymium salt of a polyvalent ester monocarboxylic acid represented by the following formula (1):           [(R A neodymium salt of a polyvalent ester monocarboxylic acid  A neodymium salt of a polyvalent ester monocarboxylic acid in accordance with claim 8, wherein R A neodymium salt of a polyvalent ester monocarboxylic acid in accordance with claim 8, wherein R A method of producing a neodymium salt of a polyvalent ester monocarboxylic acid,  A method of producing a neodymium salt of a polyvalent ester monocarboxylic acid in accordance with claim 11, wherein R A method of producing a neodymium salt of a polyvalent ester monocarboxylic acid in accordance with claim 11, wherein R <seperator>EP-1378543-A1<id_sep>subgroupC08L55slash02subgroup groupC08L101slash00group groupC08L71slash00group groupC08L23slash00group groupC08J3slash00group groupC08L55slash00group groupC08J5slash00group subgroupC08L23slash16subgroup subclassC08Jsubclass sectionCsection groupC08L67slash00group subclassC08Lsubclass groupC08L77slash00group subgroupC08L71slash02subgroup subgroupC08L67slash02subgroup classC08class THERMOPLASTIC RESIN COMPOSITION MATERIAL AND FORMED ARTICLE COMPRISING SAID MATERIAL A thermoplastic resin composition material 1 includes a resin portion (a) 2 made of a thermoplastic resin (A) ; elastomer portions (b) 3 made of a thermoplastic elastomer (B) having substantially no compatibility with the thermoplastic resin (A) and having a glass transition temperature of lower than or equal to -40°C; and polymer portions (c) 4 made of a high polymer (C) having substantially no compatibility with the thermoplastic resin (A) and the thermoplastic elastomer (B), having a glass transition temperature or crystallization temperature of lower than or equal to -50°C, and having a viscosity at 40°C of 0.1 to 200000 cP. The material has a structure in which the elastomer portions (b) 3 are dispersed in the resin portion (a) 2, and the polymer portions (c) 4 are dispersed in the elastomer portions (b) 3. Accordingly, low-temperature impact resistance can significantly be improved without deterioration in the other inherent excellent physical properties of the thermoplastic resin.  The present invention relates to a thermoplastic resin composition material. More specifically, it relates to a material comprising a thermoplastic resin composition that is useful for the production of molded articles which require low-temperature impact resistance and to such molded articles made from the thermoplastic resin composition material. To improve low-temperature impact resistance of molded articles made from thermoplastic resins, various elastomers (rubber components) are blended with or plasticizers are added to the thermoplastic resins. Alternatively, both elastomers and plasticizers are added to the thermoplastic resins. When costs are no object, thermoplastic elastomers are used in some cases. For example, Japanese Examined Patent Application Publication No. 06-45748 discloses a polyamide composition which includes a polyamide, a graft modified ran-copoly(ethylene/α-olefin) and a low molecular weight modified ethylenic random copolymer added to the polyamide in order to improve its low-temperature impact resistance. The graft-modified ran-copoly(ethylene/α-olefin) herein is graft-modified with an α, β-unsaturated carboxylic acid or its acid derivative, and the low molecular weight modified ethylenic random copolymer is a low molecular weight ethylenic copolymer graft-polymerized with an α,β-unsaturated carboxylic acid or its derivative. Japanese Unexamined Patent Application Publications No. 60-156747 and No. 01-272659 disclose resin compositions having improved impact resistance and comprising a polyester and a graft-modified polyolefin. However, some of the resulting molded articles undergone these improvements may have insufficient impact resistance at low temperatures. To solve this problem, one skilled in the art uses large amounts of elastomers or adds plasticizers to a resin up to a limitation at which the plasticizers have compatibility with the resin. The use of the elastomers in large amounts, however, may invite deterioration in properties such as strength (e. g. , tensile strength and flexural strength) , heat resistance, and chemical resistance. The addition of the plasticizers in large amounts may cause bleeding of the plasticizers. Accordingly, an object of the present invention is to provide a thermoplastic resin composition material that can have significantly improved low-temperature impact resistance without deterioration in the other excellent inherent physical properties of thermoplastic resins, as well as to provide a molded article made from the thermoplastic resin composition material. After intensive investigations to achieve the above object, the present inventors have found that, by adding and admixing a thermoplastic elastomer and a high polymer to a thermoplastic resin and dispersing these components to a specific dispersion state, impact resistance at low temperatures can substantially be improved without deterioration in properties (e.g., tensile properties, flexural properties, and heat resistant properties) of the thermoplastic resin as compared with the case where the components are not in the specific dispersion state. The present invention has been accomplished based on these findings. Specifically, the present invention provides a thermoplastic resin composition material including a resin portion (a) made of a thermoplastic resin (A) ; elastomerportions (b) made of a thermoplastic elastomer (B) having substantially no compatibility with the thermoplastic resin (A) and having a glass transition temperature of lower than or equal to -40°C; and polymer portions (c) made of a high polymer (C) having substantially no compatibility with the thermoplastic resin (A) and the thermoplastic elastomer (B), having a glass transition temperature or crystallization temperature of lower than or equal to -50°C, and having a viscosity at 40°C of from 0. 1 to 200000 cP, wherein the material has a structure in which the elastomer portions (b) are dispersed in the resin portion (a), and the polymer portions (c) are dispersed in the elastomer portions (b). A thermoplastic resin composition material comprising a resin portion (a) made of a thermoplastic resin (A) ; elastomer portions (b) made of a thermoplastic elastomer (B), the thermoplastic elastomer (B) having substantially no compatibility with the thermoplastic resin (A) and having a glass transition temperature of lower than or equal to -40°C; and polymer portions (c) made of a high polymer (C) , the high polymer (C) having substantially no compatibility with the thermoplastic resin (A) and the thermoplastic elastomer (B), having a glass transition temperature or crystallization temperature of lower than or equal to -50°C, and having a viscosity at 40°C of from 0.1 to 200000 cP, wherein the material has a structure in which the elastomer portions (b) are dispersed in the resin portion (a) and the polymer portions (c) are dispersed in the elastomer portions (b). The thermoplastic resin composition material according to claim 1, wherein 0.5 to 100 parts by weight of the thermoplastic elastomer (B) and 0.01 to 10 parts by weight of the high polymer (C) are contained relative to 100 parts by weight of the thermoplastic resin (A). The thermoplastic resin composition material according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the percentage of elastomer portions (b) encapsulating the polymer portions (c) dispersed therein is equal to or more than 30% by volume based on the total amount of the elastomer portions (b), and wherein the percentage of polymer portions (c) dispersed in the elastomer portions (b) is equal to or more than 50% by volume based on the total amount of the polymer portions (c). The thermoplastic resin composition material according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the thermoplastic resin (A) is a polyamide or a polyester. The thermoplastic resin composition material according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the thermoplastic elastomer (B) is an olefinic elastomer or a styrenic elastomer. The thermoplastic resin composition material according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the high polymer (C) is a polyether. A molded article made from the thermoplastic resin composition material as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 6. <seperator>EP-1479345-A1<id_sep>subgroupA61B17slash072subgroup classA61class subgroupA61B17slash068subgroup sectionAsection subclassA61Bsubclass Surgical stapling instrument having a spent cartridge lockout A surgical instrument for laparoscopic and endoscopic clinical procedures simultaneously severs and staples tissue clamped in an end effector comprising an elongate channel, which holds a staple cartridge, and a pivotally attached anvil. An E-beam firing bar engages the channel and selectively engages the anvil during distal firing movements, wherein the tissue is severed and stapled driven upward from the staple cartridge to form against the anvil. In particular, a wedge integral to the staple cartridge is driven distally by a middle pin of the firing bar to effect stapling. A lockout mechanism of the staple cartridge responds to the presence of the wedge sled in its unfired position to allow the firing bar to fire. Otherwise, the lockout mechanism prevents firing when the staple cartridge is spent.   The present application is related to four co-pending and commonly-owned applications filed on even date herewith, the disclosure of each is hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety, these four applications being respectively entitled:  The present invention relates in general to surgical stapler instruments that are capable of applying lines of staples to tissue while cutting the tissue between those staple lines and, more particularly, to improvements relating to stapler instruments and improvements in processes for forming various components of such stapler instruments.  Surgical staplers have been used in the prior art to simultaneously make a longitudinal incision in tissue and apply lines of staples on opposing sides of the incision. Such instruments commonly include a pair of cooperating jaw members that, if the instrument is intended for endoscopic or laparoscopic applications, are capable of passing through a cannula passageway. One of the jaw members receives a staple cartridge having at least two laterally spaced rows of staples. The other jaw member defines an anvil having staple-forming pockets aligned with the rows of staples in the cartridge. The instrument includes a plurality of reciprocating wedges which, when driven distally, pass through openings in the staple cartridge and engage drivers supporting the staples to effect the firing of the staples toward the anvil. An example of a surgical stapler suitable for endoscopic applications is described in U.S. Pat. No. 5,465,895, which advantageously provides distinct closing and firing actions. Thereby, a clinician is able to close the jaw members upon tissue to position the tissue prior to firing. Once the clinician has determined that the jaw members are properly gripping tissue, the clinician can then fire the surgical stapler, thereby severing and stapling the tissue. The simultaneous severing and stapling avoids complications that may arise when performing such actions sequentially with different surgical tools that respectively only sever or staple. It is often advantageous to build an end effector for the surgical stapler that is reusable. For instance, one patient may need a series of severing and stapling operations. Replacing an entire end effector for each operation tends to be economically inefficient. This is especially true if the end effector is built to be strong and reliable over repeated operations. To that end, staple cartridges are fitted into the end effector prior to each operation of the surgical stapler. Thus, a much smaller amount of the surgical stapler is discarded after each use. While the staple cartridge provides numerous advantages, it is desirable to prevent inadvertent firing of the surgical stapler when a spent staple cartridge is installed. Otherwise, the severing of tissue may occur without the staples to minimize bleeding. It is particularly desirable that preventing such inadvertent firing be accomplished in a reliable way that is not subject to an intervening malfunction. Moreover, for ease of manufacturing and assembly, it is further desirable that the lockout features be accomplished with a minimum number of components. Consequently, a significant need exists for an improved surgical stapling and severing instrument that prevents inadvertent firing (i.e., severing and stapling) when a staple cartridge is not installed or is spent, having been previously fired. A staple cartridge for use in a surgical instrument having a firing device, comprising:  The stapling cartridge of claim 1, wherein the lockout device includes a tip resiliently inserted into the wedge cavity having a ramped distal side and a blocking proximal side. The stapling cartridge of claim 2, wherein the body comprises a resilient material, the lockout device comprises a proximally projecting finger with a downwardly formed tip formed integrally with the body. The staple cartridge of claim 2, wherein the lockout device comprises a movable member springedly attached to the body. The staple cartridge of claim 1, wherein the firing device comprises a firing bar having a vertical cutting edge, the staple body including a proximally opening vertical slot registered to receive the vertical cutting edge. The staple cartridge of claim 5, wherein the firing bar includes a pin projecting transverse to the cutting edge for sliding engagement to the elongate channel, the body of the staple cartridge further comprising a firing drive slot registered to receive the pin, the lockout mechanism further comprising a pair of movable bodies positioned offset laterally from the vertical slot and for engaging the pin. A surgical instrument, comprising:  A surgical instrument, comprising:  The surgical instrument of claim 8, wherein the staple device comprises:  The surgical instrument of claim 9, wherein the lockout device includes a tip resiliently inserted into the wedge cavity having a ramped distal side and a blocking proximal side. <seperator>EP-1349327-A2<id_sep>classH04class sectionHsection subgroupH04L12slash24subgroup subgroupH04L12slash56subgroup subclassH04Lsubclass Binary tree arbitration system and method A binary-tree-based arbitration system and methodology with attributes that approximate a Generalized Processor Sharing (GPS) scheme for rendering fairer service grants in an environment having a plurality of competing entities. Arbitration based on probabilistic control of arbiter nodes' behavior is set forth for alleviating the inherent unfairness of a binary tree arbiter (BTA). In one implementation, BTA flag direction probabilities are computed based on composite weighted functions that assign relative weights or priorities to such factors as queue sizes, queue ages, and service class parameters. Within this general framework, techniques for desynchronizing a binary tree's root node, shuffling techniques for mapping incoming service requests to the BTA's inputs, and multilevel embedded trees are described.  This application discloses subject matter related to the subject matter disclosed in the following commonly owned co-pending patent application(s): (i) "Multiserver Scheduling System And Method For A Fast Switching Element," Application No.: 10/059,641, filed January 28, 2002, in the names of: Prasad Golla, Gerard Damm, John Blanton, Mei Yang, Dominique Verchere, Hakki Candan Cankaya, and Yijun Xiong (Attorney Docket No. 1285-052US1) and (ii) "Look-Up Table Arbitration System And Method For A Fast Switching Element," Application No.: 10/075,176, filed February 14, 2002, in the names of: Prasad Golla, Gerard Damm, John Blanton, and Dominique Verchere (Attorney Docket No. 1285-0080US), which is (are) hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes. Technical Field of the Invention The present invention generally relates to arbitration techniques. More particularly, and not by way of any limitation, the present invention is directed to a binary tree arbitration (BTA) system and method designed to provide fairer servicing. Description of Related Art The use of arbitration is well-known as a resolution mechanism among a plurality of units contending for a common resource. For example, servers associated with input and output ports of a network element must first compete in order to establish appropriate traffic paths across a switching fabric before data can be transported between a selected input port and an output port. Since arbitration times can take a significant portion of a scheduling process, it is highly desirable to implement a faster arbitration scheme where massive throughput rates are required. Other concerns also arise in environments involving a selection of one among several weighted units. Ideally, any arbitration technique employed in such a scenario should result in a selection probability distribution that matches the units' relative weights in accordance with established Generalized Processor Sharing (GPS) principles. When applied to scheduling processes in a network element, this problem translates into arbitrating among requests generated by various input queues that are differentiated based on a number of Quality of Service (QoS) parameters. Known solutions for supporting fast arbitrations (i.e., where arbitration iterations can be executed in a few clock cycles) involve arbiters whose structure and logic are implemented in hardware. Such hardware implementations of round-robin arbiters (RRAs) and binary tree arbiters (BTAs) are exemplary. Whereas these solutions are deemed to be generally adequate in terms of their scalability and relatively simpler design, certain deficiencies and shortcomings persist. First, although the existing hardware-based RRAs and BTAs are fast, they are not fair with respect to servicing requests from differentiated traffic classes. Typically, fairness can only be implemented at the cost of computational complexity, which not only necessitates expensive hardware but results in slower arbitration times as well. Thus, the price/performance ratios of today's arbiters are not entirely satisfactory in QoS-aware networks. Further, the current RRA and BTA techniques are inherently unfair in the case of polarized traffic where a portion of the contending units disproportionately generate service requests relative to the other units. In the context of telecommunications networks, this condition introduces longer access delays and queue lengths, in addition to packet loss due to full buffers. Relatedly, where the traffic is classified into multiple priorities, low priority queues may have to contend with buffer starvation which results in degraded service. A multi-level system for arbitrating among N competing entities, each entity operating to generate a service request, said system comprising:  The multi-level system for arbitrating among N competing entities as set forth in claim 1, wherein said embedded logic structure comprises a binary tree arbiter (BTA) structure, referred to as a secondary BTA having a plurality of secondary arbiter nodes. The multi-level system for arbitrating among N competing entities as set forth in claim 2, wherein said secondary BTA comprises a prioritized BTA. The multi-level system for arbitrating among N competing entities as set forth in claim 2, wherein at least one of said secondary arbiter nodes is embedded with another BTA structure, referred to as a tertiary BTA having a plurality of tertiary arbiter nodes. The multi-level system for arbitrating among N competing entities as set forth in claim 4, wherein each of said secondary and tertiary BTA structures is comprised of a prioritized BTA, each having a different priority level. An arbitration methodology for arbitrating among N competing entities, each entity operating to generate a service request, said methodology comprising the steps:  The arbitration methodology for arbitrating among N competing entities as set forth in claim 6, wherein said probability value associated with said direction indicator is determined based on a composite weighted function having at least a queue size factor relating to each of said pair of competing links. The arbitration methodology for arbitrating among N competing entities as set forth in claim 7, wherein, for each particular link of said pair of competing links coupled to said Level-i node, said queue size factor is derived based on an averaging function of queue size factors corresponding to a sub-tree that supports said each particular link. The arbitration methodology for arbitrating among N competing entities as set forth in claim 8, wherein said averaging function comprises a weighted linear function of said queue size factors. The arbitration methodology for arbitrating among N competing entities as set forth in claim 6, wherein said probability value associated with said direction indicator is determined based on a composite weighted function having at least a queue age factor relating to each of said pair of competing links. The arbitration methodology for arbitrating among N competing entities as set forth in claim 10, wherein, for each particular link of said pair of competing links coupled to said Level-i node, said queue size factor is derived based on an averaging function of queue age factors corresponding to a sub-tree that supports said each particular link. The arbitration methodology for arbitrating among N competing entities as set forth in claim 10, wherein said averaging function comprises a weighted linear function of said queue age factors. The arbitration methodology for arbitrating among N competing entities as set forth in claim 6, wherein said probability value associated with said direction indicator is determined based on a composite weighted function having at least a service class factor relating to each of said pair of competing links. The arbitration methodology for arbitrating among N competing entities as set forth in claim 13, wherein, for each particular link of said pair of competing links coupled to said Level-i node, said service class factor is derived based on an averaging function of service class factors corresponding to a sub-tree that supports said each particular link. The arbitration methodology for arbitrating among N competing entities as set forth in claim 14, wherein said averaging function comprises a weighted linear function of said service class factors. <seperator>EP-1394945-A2<id_sep>classH03class sectionHsection subclassH03Ksubclass subgroupH03K17slash04subgroup subgroupH03K17slash0412subgroup subgroupH03K17slash10subgroup Driver circuit A driver circuit includes first (T1) and second (T2) three-terminal active elements, and first (DL1) and second (DL2) delay units. The first and second three-terminal active elements (T1,T2) are series-connected. Each of the first and second three-terminal active elements (T1,T2) has an amplification function and first, second, and third electrodes. The second and third electrodes of each three-terminal active element (T1,T2) are series-connected between the first and second potentials (Vdd,GND). The first and second delay units (DL1,DL2) receive the same input signal (Vin). The outputs of the first and second delay units (DL1,DL2) are respectively connected to the first electrodes of the first and second three-terminal active elements (T1,T2). The delay amount of the second delay unit (DL2) is larger than that of the first delay unit (DL1). The delay amount of the first delay unit (DL1) is a finite value including zero.  Background of the Invention The present invention relates to a driver circuit using a transistor and, more particularly, to a driver circuit capable of a large-amplitude output at a high speed. The implementation of a wide-band, high-output amplifier capable of DC high-speed operation and large-amplitude driving is known as semiconductor integrated circuits for optical modulator driver, laser driver, and large-amplitude logical interface output. Also, the implementation of a high-speed, high-output amplifier capable of high-frequency operation and large-amplitude driving is known as a power amplifier for a wireless system. The present invention relates to a circuit arrangement which implements such amplifier. Fig. 15 shows the arrangement of the output stage of a conventional driver circuit using a field effect transistor (to be referred to as an FET hereinafter) with a source-grounded circuit. Reference symbol GND denotes ground; Vdd, a positive power supply voltage; Vin, an input signal voltage; Vout, an output signal voltage; T1, an FET; and R1, a resistor. Reference symbol Vds denotes a voltage of the drain of the FET to the source; and Vdsmax and Vdsmin, maximum and minimum design values of Vds. Letting Vdsbd be the positive breakdown voltage of the drain of the FET to the source, Vdsmax < Vdsbd must be established. Letting Vgd be the voltage of the gate to the drain, Vgdmax and Vgdmin be the maximum and minimum design values of Vgd, and Vgdbd be the negative breakdown voltage of the gate of the FET to the drain, Vgdmin > Vgdbd must be established. In the prior art, a change Vdsmax-Vdsmin in Vds of one FET is extracted as an output amplitude on the output stage of the driver circuit in the source-grounded circuit. That is, Vout having an amplitude larger than Vdsmax-Vdsmin cannot be output. This also applies to an emitter-grounded circuit using a bipolar transistor. According to Japanese Patent Laid-Open No. 3-73917 (Fig. 5 of this reference), the power supply bias is properly set. When a gate-source voltage Vgs is set to a high level Vgsmax for both series-connected FETs on the output stage, a drain-source voltage Vds can be set to a low level Vdsmin. When Vgs is set to a low level Vgsmin, Vds can be set to a high level Vdsmax. When an input signal is sufficiently low in speed, the total voltage applied to the two series-connected transistors can be equally divided by the two transistors, and a signal having an amplitude twice the amplitude outputtable by one transistor can be output. Fig. 16 shows the arrangement of the output stage of a driver circuit disclosed in Japanese Patent Laid-Open No. 3-73917. In this arrangement, transistors T1 and T2 are series-connected between a power supply voltage Vdd and ground GND. An input signal voltage Vin is simultaneously applied to the gate electrodes of the transistors (FETs) T1 and T2. In the technique disclosed in Japanese Patent Laid-Open No. 3-73917, the driving timings of the gate electrodes of the two FETs basically coincide with each other. If a high-speed signal is input, the voltage balance between the two FETs is lost, and the voltage readily exceeds the breakdown voltage of the transistor. A driver circuit characterized by comprising:  A circuit according to claim 1, wherein said second delay means (DL2) is formed from an inverter (INV). A circuit according to claim 2, wherein the inverter (INV) is formed from a three-terminal active element (T11, T21, T22) of the same type as said first and second three-terminal active elements. A circuit according to claim 1, wherein    the driver circuit further comprises    at least one three-terminal active element (T3, T33) which is series-connected to said first and second three-terminal active elements (T1, T2; T31, T32) on a side close to the second potential between the first and second potentials, and    at least one further delay means (DL3) which receives the same input signal as in said first and second delay means (DL1, DL2),    an output of said further delay means (DL3) is connected to a first electrode of said third three-terminal active element (T3, T33), and    a delay amount of said further delay means (DL3) is larger than the delay amount of said second delay means (DL2), and increases as the number of three-terminal active elements increases. A circuit according to claim 1, wherein    another arrangement (T11', T21', T22') identical to the arrangement defined in claim 1 is arranged and paired, and    a common current source (Tcs2) is connected between the first potential and a third potential in each arrangement. A circuit according to claim 4, wherein    another arrangement (T11', T21', T22', T31', T32', T33') identical to the arrangement defined in claim 4 is arranged and paired, and    a common current source (Tcs3) is connected between the first potential and a third potential in each arrangement. A circuit according to claim 1, wherein a forward diode (D1, D21, D21') is series-connected between said three-terminal active elements. A circuit according to claim 4, wherein a forward diode (D1, D2) is series-connected between said three-terminal active elements. A circuit according to claim 5, wherein a forward diode (D1, D2) is series-connected between said first three-terminal active elements (T21, T21', T22, T22'). A circuit according to claim 6, wherein a forward diode (D31, D22, D31', D32') is series-connected between said first three-terminal active elements (T31, T31', T32, T32', T33, T33'). <seperator>EP-1577638-A2<id_sep>subclassG01Bsubclass sectionGsection classG01class subgroupG01B20060101Ssubgroup groupG01B11slash00group subgroupG01B11slash27subgroup Method and apparatus for object alignment The present invention relates to a method and apparatus for alignment of two mechanical parts. An inventive measuring device has a housing comprising a light source and a detector for detection of light beams. The light source is capable of transmitting a light beam modulated according to a modulation scheme for information transmission. The output of said detector is connected to an interpreter arranged to demodulate a detected light beam and to a signal conditioner arranged to extract the position of impingement of a detected light beam on the detector surface.   The present invention relates to the alignment of objects in general, and to the alignment of mechanical parts in particular.  The use of many mechanical apparatuses includes the attachment of one mechanical part to another, such as A method often used in shaft alignment is commonly referred to as the reverse indicator method, in which a light source and a light sensor are mounted on each shaft, the light sensor on one shaft detecting light emitted from the light source on the other shaft. This technique is well known in the art and is described  A problem to which the present invention relates is how to improve an apparatus and system for performing alignment of two mechanical parts. This problem is address by a measuring device for object alignment, said measuring device having a housing comprising a light source and a detector for detection of light beams. The light source is capable of transmitting a light beam modulated according to a modulation scheme for information transmission, and the output of the detector is connected to an interpreter arranged to demodulate a detected laser beam and to a signal conditioner arranged to extract the position of impingement of a detected laser beam on the detector surface. The problem is further address by an apparatus for aligning a first mechanical part and a second mechanical part, the apparatus comprising a first measuring device attachable to the first part and a second measuring device attachable to the second part. The first measuring device comprises a laser transmitter and a first detector, and the second measuring device comprises a second laser transmitter and a second detector, the first detector for detecting a second laser beam transmitted by said second laser transmitter and the second detector for detecting a first laser beam transmitted by the first laser transmitter. The first and second detectors are arranged to outputting a first and second detection signal, respectively, upon detection of a laser beam. The first laser transmitter is capable of transmitting a laser beam modulated according to a modulation scheme suitable for information transmission. The second measuring device comprises a demodulator connected to the output of the second detector, said demodulator being arranged to demodulate a second detection signal which is modulated according to said modulation scheme. The problem is yet further addressed by a method for aligning a first mechanical part and a second mechanical part by means of a first measuring device attachable to the first part, and a second measuring device attachable to the second part, the first measuring device comprising a laser transmitter and a first detector, and the second measuring device comprising a second laser transmitter and a second detector. The method comprises emitting, from the first laser transmitter, a first laser beam modulated to carry a message; detecting the first laser beam in the second detector; generating a first detector output signal responsive to said detecting; and demodulating the first detector output signal to retrieve said message. By the inventive measuring device, apparatus and method is achieved that wireless communication between a first measuring device and a second measuring device can be achieved. Hence, a user of the inventive apparatuses does not need to spend time avoiding a cord connecting the two measuring devices, thus making the measurement procedure more efficient and less frustrating for the user. Furthermore, the stability and reliability of the apparatuses is improved. If the two measuring devices had to be connected by a cable, the risk of the connecting cable becoming overheated is imminent whenever the two mechanical parts are hot, as is often the case with mechanical parts that have recently been stopped. A measuring device (130a, 130b) for object alignment, said measuring device having a housing (140, 200, 205) comprising a light source (145a, 145b) and a detector (150a, 150b) for detection of light beams (160b, 160a) and wherein  The measuring device of claim 1, wherein said light source is a laser transmitter, the light beam is a laser beam and the detector is for detecting laser beams. The measuring device of claim 2, wherein  The measuring device of any of the above claims, wherein the output of said detector is connected to the interpreter and the signal conditioner in parallel. The measuring device of claim 4, wherein said interpreter and said signal conditioner are arranged to simultaneously demodulate and extract, respectively. The measuring device of anyone of the above claims, wherein the measuring device further comprises a processor (400a, 400b) wherein a first input of said processor is connected to the output of said interpreter, a second input is connected to the output of said signal conditioner, and said processor is arranged to receive a demodulated message from the interpreter and to receive position measurement results from the signal conditioner. The measuring device according anyone of claims 1-6 wherein said light source is arranged to emit a light beam of line shape and wherein said detector is a line shaped detector. The measuring device of anyone of claims 1-7 wherein the measuring device is for shaft alignment and wherein said housing comprises a holder (205) for attaching the measuring device to a shaft (110). The measuring device of anyone of claims 1-8, wherein said measuring device further comprises an inclinometer (165) arranged to indicate the angular position of an object to which the measuring device is attached. An apparatus for alignment of mechanical parts comprising a first measuring device according to anyone of claims 1-9 and a second measuring device according to anyone of claims 1-9, the detector of said first measuring device for detecting a second light beam transmitted by the light source of said second measuring device, and the detector of said second measuring device for detecting a first light beam emitted by the light source of said first measuring device. A system for shaft alignment comprising the apparatus of claim 10 and a further processor (135, 435), said further processor being connected to one of said first and second measuring devices via a dual direction communication connection (170), said further processor comprising a user interface and being connected to a user display and a set of keys, wherein    said further processor is arranged to analyse position measurement results obtained via the detectors of said first and second measurement devices. The system of claim 11, wherein said further processor is further arranged to perform vibration analysis for detection of misalignment of said mechanical parts. The system of claim 10 or 11, wherein said dual direction communication connection is a wireless connection. An apparatus for aligning a first mechanical part (110a, 110b) and a second mechanical part (110b, 110a), said apparatus comprising a first measuring device (130a, 130b) attachable to the first part and a second measuring device (130b, 130a) attachable to the second part, said first measuring device comprising a first laser transmitter (145a, 145b) and a first detector (150a, 150b), said second measuring device comprising a second laser transmitter (145b, 145a) and a second detector (150b, 150a), said first detector for detecting a laser beam (160b, 160a) transmitted by said second laser transmitter and said second detector for detecting a laser beam (160a, 160b) transmitted by the first laser transmitter, said first and second detectors being arranged to, upon detection of a laser beam, outputting a first and second detection signal, respectively, wherein    said first laser transmitter is capable of transmitting a laser beam modulated according to a modulation scheme suitable for information transmission; and    said second measuring device comprises a demodulator (410b, 410a) connected to the output of the second detector, said demodulator being arranged to demodulate a second detection signal which is modulated according to said modulation scheme. The apparatus according to claim 14, wherein,    the first laser transmitter is arranged to perform transmission in at least two different transmission modes, wherein in a first transmission mode, the transmitted laser beam is suited for position sensing, and in the second transmission mode, the laser beam is modulated according to said modulation scheme for information transmission. The apparatus according to claim 14, wherein    the first laser transmitter is arranged to transmit a laser beam modulated according to a modulation scheme suitable for information transmission and position sensing. The apparatus according to claim 16, wherein    said second measuring device further comprises a signal conditioner (405b, 405a) connected to the output of the second detector and a second processor (400b, 400a) connected to the output of said signal conditioner, said signal conditioner being arranged to extract a signal responsive to the position of a laser beam on the surface of the second detector, said signal being in a format readable by the second processor; and    said signal conditioner and said demodulator can operate simultaneously. The apparatus according to anyone of claims 14-17, wherein said first measuring device further comprises a first processor (400a, 400b) and a first laser driver (415a, 415b), said first laser driver being arranged to receive, from the first processor, instructions regarding the transmission of a laser beam, to generate an anode current (Ianode) in response to said instruction and to feed said anode current to a laser diode of the first laser transmitter. A system (105) for statically aligning two shafts (110a, 110b), said system comprising the apparatus according to anyone of claims 14-18, wherein said first part is a first shaft and said second part is a second shaft, wherein    one of said first and second measuring devices is connected, via a dual direction connection (170) to a further processor (135, 435) comprising a user interface, said further processor being arranged to receive, via said connection, results from measurements performed by the first and second measuring devices. The system of claim 19, wherein said further processor is further arranged to perform vibration analysis for detecting misalignment of said two shafts. A method for aligning a first mechanical part (110a, 110b) and a second mechanical part (110b, 110a) by means of a first measuring device (130a, 130b) attachable to the first part, and a second measuring device (130b, 130a) attachable to the second part, the first measuring device comprising a first light source (145a, 145b) and a first detector (150a, 150b), the second measuring device comprising a second light source (145b, 145a) and a second detector (150b, 150a), said method comprising  The method of claim 21, said method further comprising  The method according to claim 21, wherein said method further comprises  The method of claims 22 or 23, wherein said method further comprises  The method of anyone of claims 21-24, wherein said first light source is a laser transmitter and said first light beam is a laser beam. The method according to claim 25, wherein said first measuring device further comprises a first processor (400a, 400b) and a first laser driver (415a, 415b), said method further comprising  <seperator>EP-1487040-A1<id_sep>subgroupH01M4slash92subgroup subgroupH01M8slash06subgroup subclassH01Msubclass sectionHsection subgroupH01M4slash86subgroup subgroupH01M4slash90subgroup classH01class subgroupH01M4slash88subgroup subgroupH01M4slash96subgroup subgroupH01M8slash10subgroup FUEL CELL A fuel cell of the present invention is disclosed that includes a catalysis layer constituting a fuel supply side electrode. The catalysis layer is composed of a catalyst, an electrically conductive substance, a hydrogen-ion conductive electrolytic substance, and a carbon monoxide oxidizer. As the carbon monoxide oxidizer, for example, a transition metal oxide, chloride, or hydride is used. Alternatively, a metal complex containing water as a ligand can also be used as the carbon monoxide oxidizer.  TECHNICAL FIELD This invention generally relates to fuel cells and, more particularly, to a fuel cell of the polyelectrolyte type which directly uses, as the fuel, a liquid fuel containing an organic compound such as methanol, ethanol, dimethylether et cetera and which uses, as the oxidizer, air or oxygen. More specifically, the present invention relates to a fuel supply side electrode of such a type of fuel cell. BACKGROUND ART In typical polyelectrolyte type fuel cells, a fuel capable of generation of protons such as hydrogen is supplied to a fuel electrode and an oxygen-containing oxidizer such as air is supplied to an air electrode. The fuel and the oxidizer undergo electrochemical reaction to produce electricity. In this type of fuel cell, one surface of a polyelectrolyte membrane capable of hydrogen-ion selective transportation is provided with a fuel supply side electrode and the other surface is provided with an oxidizer side electrode. In formation of these electrodes, a catalytic reaction layer, composed of a mixture of either electrically conductive carbon particles on which a metal catalyst is supported or a metal catalyst simple substance and a hydrogen-ion conductive polyelectrolyte, is firstly formed on each surface of the polyelectrolyte membrane. Thereafter, on an outer surface of each catalytic reaction layer, a diffusion layer composed of a material which permits the fuel to pass therethrough and has the property of conducting electrons (e.g., electrically conductive carbon particle paper). A combination of the catalytic reaction layer and the diffusion layer both formed on the surface of the polyelectrolyte membrane is called an electrode. In addition, in fuel cells, gas sealing member, gasket or the like are disposed around the electrodes with the polyelectrolyte membrane held therebetween so as to prevent the fuel supplied to the electrode from leaking out and mixing with oxidizer gases. The gas sealing member and gasket are formed integrally with the electrodes and with the polyelectrolyte membrane, and such an integrated body is called a membrane electrode assembly (hereinafter referred to as "MEA"). Generally, the catalytic reaction layer of the polyelectrolyte type fuel cell is formed by shaping a mixture of electrically conductive carbon particle fine powers on which a precious metal catalyst of the platinum family is supported and a hydrogen-ion conductive polyelectrolyte, into a thin layer. Currently, as the hydrogen-ion conductive polyelectrolyte, perfluoro carbon sulfonic acid is usually used. There are several methods of forming a catalysis layer. For example, in a catalysis layer forming method, electrically conductive carbon particle fine powders supporting thereon a catalyst are mixed with a polyelectrolyte solution prepared by dissolving a hydrogen-ion conductive polyelectrolyte into an alcohols solvent such as ethanol. This mixture is dosed with an organic solvent having a relatively high boiling point such as isopropyl alcohol, butyl alcohol or the like for conversion into an ink-like fluid. This ink is applied onto a polyelectrolyte membrane by means of screen print, spray coat, doctor blade, roll coater, or the like. When generating electricity by means of a fuel cell of the type which directly uses, as its fuel, an organic fuel such as methanol, the organic fuel is oxidized and generation of CO A fuel cell comprising a hydrogen-ion conductive electrolyte membrane, a first electrode disposed on one surface of said hydrogen-ion conductive electrolyte membrane, a second electrode disposed on the other surface of said hydrogen-ion conductive electrolyte membrane wherein said first and second electrodes include respective catalysis parts, wherein a fuel is supplied to said first electrode and an oxidizer is supplied to said second electrode, and wherein electricity is produced by oxidative reaction of said fuel,    at least said catalysis part of said first electrode including:  The fuel cell as set forth in claim 1, wherein said catalyst comprises at least one metal element selected from among an element group of platinum, ruthenium, palladium, nickel, rhodium, cobalt, iridium, osmium, and iron. The fuel cell as set forth in claim 2, wherein said catalyst is a metal simple substance, a metal compound, or an alloy. The fuel cell as set forth in claim 1, wherein said electrically conductive substance comprises carbon black, carbon particles, metal fine particles, or electrically conductive polymers. The fuel cell as set forth in claim 1, wherein said hydrogen-ion conductive electrolyte substance is a polyelectrolyte substance. The fuel cell as set forth in claim 5, wherein said hydrogen-ion conductive electrolyte substance contains, in its main chain, fluorocarbon. The fuel cell as set forth in claim 1, wherein said carbon monoxide oxidizer contains any one of a metal compound such as metal oxide, metal chloride, and metal hydride; a said metal compound having hydrated water; an organic substance; and a metal complex containing water as a ligand. The fuel cell as set forth in claim 7, wherein said metal oxide is partially crystalline. The fuel cell as set forth in claim 7, wherein said metal oxide is entirely crystalline. The fuel cell as set forth in claim 1, wherein said carbon monoxide oxidizer overlies said electrically conductive substance. The fuel cell as set forth in claim 1, wherein said carbon monoxide oxidizer overlies said catalyst. The fuel cell as set forth in claim 1, wherein said carbon monoxide oxidizer constitutes a mixture together with said catalyst. The fuel cell as set forth in claim 1, wherein said carbon monoxide oxidizer has a particle size of not less than one times nor more than 100 times the particle size of said catalyst. The fuel cell as set forth in claim 1, wherein F/C is not less than 0.01 nor more than 2.0 where F(g) denotes the weight of said hydrogen-ion conductive electrolyte substance and C(g) denotes the weight of said electrically conductive substance. The fuel cell as set forth in claim 1, wherein M/C is not less than 0.01 nor more than 0.5 where M(g) denotes the weight of said carbon monoxide oxidizer and C(g) denotes the weight of said electrically conductive substance. The fuel cell as set forth in claim 1, wherein said fuel is an organic compound. The fuel cell as set forth in claim 16, wherein said fuel is formed of methanol, ethanol, ethylene glycol, dimethyl ether, dimethoxymethane, or a mixture of two or more different kinds of said organic compounds. Amended claims under Art. 19.1 PCT Amended) A fuel cell comprising a hydrogen-ion conductive electrolyte membrane, a first electrode disposed on one surface of said hydrogen-ion conductive electrolyte membrane, a second electrode disposed on the other surface of said hydrogen-ion conductive electrolyte membrane wherein said first and second electrodes include respective catalysis parts, wherein a fuel is supplied to said first electrode and an oxidizer is supplied to said second electrode, and wherein electricity is produced by oxidative reaction of said fuel,    said catalysis part of at least said first electrode including:  The fuel cell as set forth in claim 1, wherein said catalyst comprises at least one metal element selected from among an element group of platinum, ruthenium, palladium, nickel, rhodium, cobalt, iridium, osmium, and iron. The fuel cell as set forth in claim 2, wherein said catalyst is a metal simple substance, a metal compound, or an alloy. The fuel cell as set forth in claim 1, wherein said electrically conductive substance comprises carbon black, carbon particles, metal fine particles, or electrically conductive polymers. The fuel cell as set forth in claim 1, wherein said hydrogen-ion conductive electrolyte substance is a polyelectrolyte substance. The fuel cell as set forth in claim 5, wherein said hydrogen-ion conductive electrolyte substance contains, in its main chain, fluorocarbon. The fuel cell as set forth in claim 1, wherein said carbon monoxide oxidizer contains any one of a metal compound such as metal oxide, metal chloride, and metal hydride; a said metal compound having hydrated water; an organic substance; and a metal complex containing water as a ligand. <seperator>EP-1275516-A1<id_sep>sectionBsection subclassB41Jsubclass subgroupB41M5slash52subgroup groupB41M5slash00group subgroupB41M5slash50subgroup subgroupB41J2slash01subgroup subclassB41Msubclass classB41class Ink jet recording media and method for their preparation A coating fluid for application to a support to prepare an ink jet recording medium comprises an aqueous dispersion of a synthetic polymer hydrogel and gelatin, the amount of the synthetic polymer hydrogel being from 5 to 50% by weight of the combined weight of synthetic polymer and gelatin. Preferably the coating fluid also contains a mordant, an aliphatic alcohol to assist dispersion of the hydrogel polymer and a particulate material to impart a porous structure to the coating. The invention also provides an ink jet recording medium comprising a support on which is an ink-receiving layer comprising the gelatin and a synthetic polymer hydrogel. The amount of the latter may be from 0.3 to 5g/square metre. Field of the Invention This invention relates to a coating fluid for application to a support to prepare ink jet recording medium, to a novel recording medium for use in an ink jet imaging process and to a method for the preparation of the novel ink jet recording medium. Background of the Invention Ink jet printing is a process in which a stream of ink, preferably in the form of droplets, is ejected at high speed from nozzles against a medium so as to create an image. Media used for ink jet recording need to be dimensionally stable, absorptive of ink, capable of providing a fixed image and compatible with the imaging materials and hardware. In many instances ink jet printing is carried out on simple paper media particularly in those instances where correspondence and the like is being reproduced. The typical inks employed in ink jet processes have a fairly high solvent content and the solvents generally include high boiling slow drying polar materials such as glycols, glycol ethers and water. The presence of fairly large amounts of relatively high boiling solvents in the ink can result in the production of an image having a tacky and/or greasy feeling surface. The recording sheet for an inkjet printer is required to swiftly absorb the ink and have good colour forming properties. To reduce the dry time of the ink it has been previously proposed to provide a recording sheet having a porous layer formed on a substrate, the porous layer being formed of an inorganic oxides such as aluminium oxides or silica. US Patent No 4,517,244 discloses an ink jet recording material having enhanced fixation rates comprising a support having therein a water insoluble resin having a water absorbing capacity of from 50 to 100 times its own weight. United States Patent No 5,212,008 discloses a recording sheet which comprises a substrate having two coatings. The first coating comprises (a) a crosslinking agent and (b) a polymer such as a polysaccharide cross linkable by (a). The second coating which is in contact with the first comprises a binder and compound such as an alkoxylated di-fatty quaternary compound. European Patent Application No 916512 describes a coating fluid for application to a substrate for use in ink jet printing, the coating fluid comprising alumina hydrate particles dispersed in an aqueous medium which contains as binders a polyvinyl alcohol and a polymerisable compound having a hydrocarbon group with a hydroxyl group or a compound having a polyoxyalkylene chain, said compound having a substituent with an unsaturated bond or an epoxy group. The polymerisable compounds disclosed are monomers. The fluid is applied to a substrate such as polyethylene terephthalate, dried and heated with a polymerization initiator to effect polymerization of the polymerizable compound. Compared with the use of polyvinyl alcohol without the polymerizable binder, the advantage stated is that peeling of the coated layer is avoided and good image quality is maintained for a long period of time. United States Patent No 5,888,629 describes a medium for ink jet printing which includes a bottom layer of material having a very high absorption for the polar solvent component of the ink jet imaging ink together with a top layer of image receptor material comprising gelatin disposed in fluid communication therewith. The bottom layer which consists essentially of a hydrogel formed from a water insoluble hydrophilic polymer and a water soluble polymer has a very high affinity for the solvent component of the ink and tends to draw the solvent from the body of ink thereby preventing image spread and producing a localized highly saturated image. A coating fluid for application to a support to prepare an ink jet recording medium, said coating fluid comprising:  A coating fluid as claimed in claim 1 wherein the coating fluid contains a mordant. A coating fluid as claimed in claim 1 or 2 wherein the coating fluid contains an aliphatic alcohol to assist dispersion of the hydrogel polymer. A coating fluid as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the coating fluid contains a particulate material to impart a porous structure to the coating obtained after application of the coating fluid to a support. An ink jet recording medium comprising:  An ink jet recording medium as claimed in claim 5 wherein the amount of polymer hygrogel is from 0.3 to 5g/square metre. An ink jet recording medium as claimed in claim 5 or 6 wherein the ink-receiving layer includes a mordant in an amount from 200 to 2000mg/square metre. An ink jet recording medium as claimed in any one of claims 5 to 7 wherein the ink receiving layer includes a particulate material to impart porosity the amount of the particulate material being from 10 to 100mg/square metre. An ink jet recording medium as claimed in any one of claims 5 to 8 wherein the medium includes an overcoat, preferably a cellulose-containing overcoat applied to the ink-receiving layer. A method for the preparation of an ink jet recording medium which method comprises:  A method as claimed in claim 10 wherein the amount of polymer hydrogel applied to the support is from 0.3 to 5.0 g/square metre, preferably from 0.8 to 2.0 g/square metre. A method as claimed in claim 10 or 11 wherein a mordant is present in the coating fluid and is coated at an amount from 200 to 2000 mg/square metre, preferably from 500 to 1200 mg/square metre. A method as claimed in any one of claims 10 to 12 wherein a particulate material is included in the fluid to impart porosity to the coating and is present in an amount to provide from 10 to 100 mg/square metre preferably from 20 to 70 mg/square metre. A method as claimed in any one of claims 10 to 13 wherein an overcoat, preferably a cellulose-containing overcoat is applied to the ink-receiving layer. <seperator>EP-1346644-A1<id_sep>subclassA23Gsubclass classA23class subgroupA23G1slash21subgroup subgroupA23G1slash20subgroup subgroupA23G3slash34subgroup groupA23G1slash00group sectionAsection subgroupA23G1slash04subgroup Method of making chocolate covering layers Plungers (24) having a pressing surface (27) onto which no lubricant is applied are immersed into contact with corresponding covering layers (19) of chocolate mass thereby being pressed into shape. The temperature of the pressing surfaces (27) is kept below the solidification temperature of the chocolate mass during the pressing. The chocolate rapidly solidifies under crystallisation from its surface in contact with the pressing surface of the plunger and inwardly through the chocolate layer. Contamination of the plungers and the edible chocolate articles with lubricant remains is completely avoided and the surfaces of the covering layers are simply an identical "print" of the geometry of the plunger surface.  The present invention concerns a method for covering pre-made edible articles in moulds with a covering layer of chocolate-like mass, in particular chocolate mass. Generally, chocolate-like masses are suspensions of non-fat particles such as sugar, milk powders and cocoa solids mixed up with a liquid fat constituent. Often the fat phase comprises genuine cocoa butter of until around 30%, but may comprise substitutes as well. Such substitutes can be in the form of other types of fat-containing oils. Chocolate types where the cocoa butter has been replaced wholly or partly by other fats are often named commercially as compound chocolate, in which the cocoa butter has been replaced by palm-kernel oil. Mass made of 100% fat in the form of cocoa butter or the like as compound is also possible. However, for the chocolate-like masses according to the present invention it is decisive, that whether the fat phase constitutes of genuine cocoa butter or substitutes therefore, that the fat phase is capable of crystallizing into stable crystal types, such as the β-crystals developing in genuine cocoa butter when the mass solidifies. The chocolate-like mass is brought to a tempered, liquid state and then deposited on top of the pre-made articles in the moulds for covering the upper open surfaces of the articles. Optionally, the moulds may then be shaken for obtaining a more even distribution of the chocolate mass as a layer on top of the articles in the moulds. By the tempering process the mass is brought to around 40-50°C, where after it is being cooled to around 25-34°C so that crystallisation is initiated. Then the mass is reheated around 0,5-2,0°C for re-melting most of the in-stable crystals in the mass, however preserving a content of stable β-crystals which melts at a higher temperature than the in-stable crystals. The stable crystals are preserved in the mass ready for depositing in an amount of typically 0,01% - 5%, preferably in an amount of 0,1% - 2%. The pre-made articles may for example be made by depositing tempered chocolate-like mass in empty moulds, optionally shaking the moulds, and then immersing cold plungers into the mass for making shells with predetermined and even thickness. After the shells are solidified, the are filled with a centre mass of a creamy or liquid food material, which differs from that of the shell material. The centre mass could be an alcohol containing mass, a sugar containing mass or a creamy fondant mass, simply any of the centre masses known to the chocolate industry, as long as it is capable of carrying the subsequently deposited chocolate covering layer. EP 0 945 069 A2 discloses a proposal for making articles in the aforementioned manner, by which shells are made by the use of immersing plungers into the chocolate mass and having inclined upper shell rim surfaces, no part of which extends above the upper surface of the moulds. The geometry of the upper shell rim secures a optimal adhesion with the subsequently applied covering layer. The shells are then filled with centre mass, on top of which are deposited chocolate mass, the excess of which is scraped off while still being kind of liquid. The scrapers or knifes moves along the upper surface of the moulds. Method for covering pre-made edible articles (20) in moulds (5) with a covering layer (19) of chocolate-like mass, in particular chocolate mass, characterised in, that plungers (24) having a pressing surface (27) onto which no lubricant is applied are immersed into contact with corresponding covering layers (19) of tempered chocolate mass thereby being pressed into shape, and that the temperature of the pressing surfaces (27) are kept below the solidification temperature of the chocolate mass during the pressing, where after the plungers (24) are retracted from the chocolate coverings. Method according to claim 1, characterised in, that the plunger surfaces (27) are kept free from any moisture during the continuous pressing of further covering layers (19). Method according to claim 2, characterised in, that the air surrounding at least the pressing surfaces (27) is kept dry in every position of the plungers (24), so that no dew is created on the pressing surfaces (27). Method according to claim 1, characterised in, that the pressing surfaces (27) are cooled to temperatures below +10°C. Method according to claim 1, characterised in, that the pressing surfaces (27) are cooled to temperatures below 0°C. Method according to claim 1, characterised in, that the temperature of the pre-made articles (20) are kept below the solidification temperature of the chocolate mass layers (19). Method according to claim 1, characterised in, that the plungers (24) are moving independently of each other when in contact with the covering layers (19). Method according to claim 1, characterised in, that the top of the essentially fat-containing centre fillings (13) in the pre-made articles are pressed by the surfaces of plungers (33) before the articles are covered by the chocolate layers. Method according to claim 1, characterised in, that the covering layers (19) of chocolate mass in the different mould cavities of the same mould plate (5) constitutes of different chocolate types (A, B, C). <seperator>EP-1675366-A1<id_sep>subclassH04Msubclass subgroupH04M1slash60subgroup classH04class sectionHsection Wireless telephone having two microphones A wireless telephone having a first microphone (201) and a second microphone (202) and a method for processing audio signal in a wireless telephone having a first microphone and a second microphone. The wireless telephone includes a first microphone, a second microphone, and a signal processor, wherein at least one of the first microphone and the second microphone is a uni-directional microphone. The first microphone outputs (201) a first audio signal that includes a voice component and a background noise component. The second microphone outputs a second audio signal (202). The signal processor increases a ratio of the voice component to the noise component of the first audio signal based on the content of at least one of the first audio signal and the second audio signal to produce a third audio signal.  This application is a continuation-in-part of U.S. Patent Application No. 11/018,921 to The present invention relates generally to mobile telecommunication devices, and in particular to wireless telephones. Background noise is an inherent problem in wireless telephone communication. Conventional wireless telephones include a single microphone that receives a near-end user's voice and outputs a corresponding audio signal for subsequent encoding and transmission to the telephone of a far-end user. However, the audio signal output by this microphone typically includes both a voice component and a background noise component. As a result, the far-end user often has difficulty deciphering the desired voice component against the din of the embedded background noise component. Conventional wireless telephones often include a noise suppressor to reduce the detrimental effects of background noise. A noise suppressor attempts to reduce the level of the background noise by processing the audio signal output by the microphone through various algorithms. These algorithms attempt to differentiate between a voice component of the audio signal and a background noise component of the audio signal, and then attenuate the level of the background noise component. Conventional wireless telephones often also include a voice activity detector (VAD) that attempts to identify and transmit only those portions of the audio signal that include a voice component. One benefit of VAD is that bandwidth is conserved on the telecommunication network because only selected portions of the audio signal are transmitted. In order to operate effectively, both the noise suppressor and the VAD must be able to differentiate between the voice component and the background noise component of the input audio signal. However, in practice, differentiating the voice component from the background noise component can be difficult. What is needed then, is a wireless telephone that better mitigates the effect of background noise present in an input audio signal as compared to conventional wireless telephones, thereby resulting in the transmission of a cleaner voice signal during telephone communication. In particular, the desired wireless telephone should better differentiate between a voice component and a background noise component of an input audio signal as compared to conventional wireless telephones. Based on this differentiation, the improved wireless telephone should operate to cancel the background noise component of the audio signal. Additionally or alternatively, based on this differentiation, the improved wireless telephone should provide improved noise suppression and/or VAD functionality. The present invention is directed to a wireless telephone having a first microphone and a second microphone, wherein at least one of the first microphone and the second microphone is a uni-directional microphone. An audio signal output from the second microphone is used to differentiate between a voice component and a background noise component of an audio signal output from the first microphone. Based on this differentiation, a wireless telephone in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention operates to cancel the background noise component of the audio signal output from the first microphone. Additionally or alternatively, based on this differentiation, a wireless telephone in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention provides better noise suppression and/or VAD functionality. A wireless telephone, comprising:  The wireless telephone of claim 1, wherein the first microphone is a uni-directional microphone and is mounted on the wireless telephone such that the mouth of a user is within an acceptance angle of the first microphone during regular use of the wireless telephone. The wireless telephone of claim 1, wherein the second microphone is a uni-directional microphone and is mounted on the wireless telephone such that the mouth of a user is not within an acceptance angle of the second microphone during regular use of the wireless telephone. The wireless telephone of claim 1, wherein the second microphone is a uni-directional microphone and is mounted on the wireless telephone such that the mouth of a user is within a low-sensitivity angle of the second microphone during regular use of the wireless telephone, wherein the low-sensitivity angle is defined as an angle within which a sensitivity of the second microphone is below a predetermined threshold. A method for processing audio signals in a wireless telephone having a first microphone and a second microphone, wherein at least one of the first microphone and the second microphone is a uni-directional microphone, comprising: The method of claim 5, wherein the first microphone is a uni-directional microphone and is mounted on the wireless telephone such that the mouth of a user is within an acceptance angle of the first microphone during regular use of the wireless telephone. The method of claim 5, wherein the second microphone is a uni-directional microphone and is mounted on the wireless telephone such that the mouth of a user is not within an acceptance angle of the second microphone during regular use of the wireless telephone. A corded telephone, comprising:  A headset telephone, comprising:  A headset telephone, comprising:  <seperator>EP-1287981-A2<id_sep>subgroupC08L79slash08subgroup sectionBsection subgroupC08L23slash16subgroup subgroupB32B25slash04subgroup subclassF16Lsubclass groupC08L23slash00group groupB32B1slash00group subgroupF16L11slash04subgroup groupC08L79slash00group subclassC08Lsubclass subgroupB32B1slash08subgroup groupB32B25slash00group sectionFsection sectionCsection classF16class subclassB32Bsubclass subgroupB32B15slash08subgroup classB32class classC08class Hose A hose of a laminated structure which comprises a rubber layer composed of a rubber composition, and a laminate comprising a metal foil and a resin, the rubber composition comprising:  BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Field of the Invention The present invention relates to a hose and, more specifically, to a hose for automotive use, for example, for use as a methanol fuel hose or a hydrogen fuel hose in a fuel cell vehicle or a hose for transporting coolant in an air conditioner. Description of the Art Motor vehicles employing a methanol fuel (which may contain a gasoline) or a hydrogen fuel have not come into practical use, so that hoses for use in such motor vehicles have not specifically been developed. However, attempts are now being actively made to equip the next-generation of automotive systems with fuel cells employing a methanol fuel or a hydrogen fuel, and there is an increasing demand for developing hoses such as a methanol fuel hose and a hydrogen fuel hose for use in fuel cell vehicles. Metal tubes such as of stainless steel (SUS) are currently employed as fuel tubes (e.g., methanol fuel tubes and hydrogen fuel tubes) for fuel cell prototype vehicles pre-produced by automotive makers in consideration of gas resistance (resistance to degradation by gas) and gas barrier properties (impermeability to methanol and hydrogen). However, the metal tubes (e.g., SUS tubes) are very heavy in weight, poor in fuel efficiency, and costly. In view of the foregoing, it is an object of the present invention to provide a hose which is superior in gas barrier property, light in weight and less costly. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION In accordance with the present invention to achieve the aforesaid objects, there is provided a hose of a laminated structure which comprises a rubber layer composed of a rubber composition, and a laminate comprising a metal foil and a resin, the rubber composition comprising: The inventors of the present invention conducted intensive studies to provide a hose which is superior in gas barrier properties, light in weight and less costly. The inventors initially came up with an idea to employ a hose of a laminated structure comprising a rubber layer and a metal foil laminate rather than the conventional metal tube for weight reduction, and focused attention on an ethylene-propylene-diene terpolymer (hereinafter abbreviated as "EPDM") and an ethylene-propylene copolymer (hereinafter abbreviated as "EPM") which are less costly as the material for the rubber layer. The inventors prototyped the hose by bonding the rubber layer and the metal foil laminate with an adhesive, but found that the adhesion between the rubber layer and the metal foil laminate was insufficient due to uneven application of the adhesive. With the need for an adhesive application step, the production process is complicated and more costly. In addition, consideration should be given to the pot life and concentration control of the adhesive, making it difficult to ensure stable production. Further, the production process presents a problem associated with environmental pollution because an organic solvent such as toluene is employed as a thinner for the adhesive. To this end, the inventors further conducted studies to increase the adhesion between the rubber layer and the metal foil laminate of the hose without the application of the adhesive in an interface between the rubber layer and the metal foil laminate, and came up with an idea to mix an adhesive component with the aforesaid specific rubber material. As a result of further research and development on an adhesive component which imparts the specific rubber material with excellent adhesiveness, the inventors have found that a rubber layer produced by mixing a specific adhesive component (a resorcinol compound and a melamine resin) with the specific rubber material and vulcanizing the resulting rubber composition with the use of a peroxide vulcanizing agent has excellent adhesion to the metal foil laminate, and achieved the present invention. A hose of a laminated structure which comprises a rubber layer composed of a rubber composition, and a laminate comprising a metal foil and a resin, the rubber composition comprising:  A hose as set forth in claim 1, wherein the resin of the laminate comprises at least one of a polyamide resin and an ethylene-vinyl alcohol copolymer. A hose as set forth in claim 1 or claim2, wherein the metal foil is at least one metal foil selected from the group consisting of an iron foil, an iron alloy foil, a copper foil, a titanium foil, a silver foil, a nickel foil and an aluminum foil. A hose as set forth in any of claim 1 to claim 3, wherein the components (C) and (D) are present in the rubber composition in a weight ratio of (C)/(D)=1/0.5 to 1/2. A hose as set forth in any of claim 1 to claim 4, wherein the component (C) is present in the rubber composition in a proportion of 0.1 to 10 parts by weight based on 100 parts by weight of the component (A). A hose substantially as herein described in any one of examples 1 to 21. <seperator>EP-1480130-A2<id_sep>subgroupG06F17slash30subgroup sectionGsection groupG06F7slash00group subgroupG06F3slash06subgroup subclassG06Fsubclass classG06class Method and apparatus for moving data between storage devices System administrators (160) are able to move data between volumes (115,120) to better utilize system resources. As data is being moved, clients (135) are able to access and modify the data from the source volume (115). The apparatus moves the data by repeatedly traversing the file system (110) on the source volume and copying files to the destination volume (120). Modifications made by clients to the source volume are logged. Once the data has been moved the destination volume is updated with all client modifications.  FIELD OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to moving data between storage devices in a computer system, and more particularly to minimizing the time data is unavailable to consumers. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Organizations and users have an ever-growing need to store data on computer networks. Often, system administrators expand existing systems with additional devices capable of meeting demands. To take advantage of network growth, and to generally improve the distribution of data storage, system administrators need the ability to move data between storage devices. Currently, when moving data, system administrators have to deny users access to any of the data being moved. Denying access to data for any period of time is generally undesirable. And for large networks that contain vast amounts of mission-critical data that is vital to the operation of an organization, denying users access to data may result in adverse consequences. Some techniques exist to alleviate this problem. For example, system administrators generally schedule operations that deny access to users during time periods when networks experience the least amount of traffic. As demands on networks increase, this technique becomes more problematic. For example, users may require uninterrupted access to data for a host of reasons specific to their operations. And as the amount of data on networks grows, the time required to process the data increases. A need exists to provide users' access to files in the process of being moved, preferably in a manner that is both convenient and efficient. A solution that meets this demand would preferably address these problems and other problems associated with the prior art. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION The invention is a method and apparatus for moving data from a source volume to a destination volume that minimizes the time files are unavailable to consumers. A system administrator issues a command to move files from a source volume to a destination volume. As the system moves files from the source volume to the destination volume, the system identifies files that could not be moved. The system also identifies files that have been modified (including created or deleted) after they were moved, so that the modifications can be replicated on the destination volume. The foregoing and other features, objects, and advantages of the invention will become more readily apparent from the following detailed description, which proceeds with ten references to the accompanying drawings. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS  DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT FIG. 1 shows a computer operative to move files from a source volume to a destination volume, according to an embodiment of the invention. In FIG. 1, computer 105 acts as a server, allowing others to access data. But a person skilled in the art will recognize that computer 105 does not have to be limited to a server, and can be any variety of devices capable of allowing others to access data. Computer 105 includes file system 110, which manages the storage of data on source volume 115. FIG. Similarly, file system 190 manages the storage of data on destination volume 120. Volumes are stored on storage media such as source media 125 and destination media 130, and can also span multiple physical storage devices, if needed (for example, a storage area network (SAN)). Both source media 125 and destination media 130 can be physically within the box that is computer 105, or they can be remote from computer 105, as required. Also, both source volume 115 and destination volume 120 can be physically within the box that is computer 105, or they can be remote from computer 105, as required, and even in different computers. Typically, source volume 115 and source media 125 are contained on computer 105, but a person skilled in the art will recognize that source media 125 and source volume 115 can be on a computer other than computer 105. A system for moving data, comprising:  A system according to claim 1, further comprising an event list manager (205) to identify the files in the second list (510) of files. A system according to claim 1, further comprising a volume manager (175) operative to use the file duplicator to duplicate at least one file from the first volume (115) to,the second volume (120) and to manage the first list (505) of files and the second list (510) of files. A system according to claim 3, wherein the volume manager (175) is operative to duplicate at least a second file from the first volume (115) to the second volume (120) from a union of the first list (505) of files and the second list (510) of files. A system according to claim 1, further comprising a junction (710) linking the second volume to the first volume. A system according to claim 1, further comprising a volume location database (185) storing a location of the first volume (115) and a location of the second volume (120). A system according to claim 1, further comprising:  A system according to claim 1, further comprising an interface (170) with the first computer (105) wherein the interface enables a system administrator (160) to select the first volume (115) and second volume (120) and to select a set of files contained on the first volume to duplicate using the file duplicator on the second volume. A system according to claim 8, further comprising a first computer (105), the first computer including the interface (170). A system according to claim 9, further comprising a second computer (180), the second computer including at least one of the first storage media (125) and the second storage media (130). A computer- implemented method for moving files comprising:  A computer- implemented method according to claim 11, wherein duplicating the files in the first list (505) of files and the second list (510) of files to the destination volume (120) includes:  A computer- implemented method according to claim 11, wherein duplicating the files in the first list (505) of files and the second list (510) of files to the destination volume (120) includes:  A computer- implemented method according to claim 11, wherein attempting to duplicate a set of files from the source volume (115) includes using a file system (110,190) Application Program Interface (API) to access the file. A computer- implemented method according to claim 11, wherein identifying any files in the set of files that have been updated includes identifying any files that have been renamed, modified, or created. A computer- implemented method according to claim 15, wherein identifying any files in the set of files that have been updated further includes identifying any files that have been deleted. A computer- implemented method according to claim 16, wherein duplicating the files in the second list (510) of files to the destination volume (120) includes duplicating any file deletions. A computer- implemented method according to claim 11, wherein directing requests (1060) for files in the set of files from the source volume (115) to the destination volume (120) includes determining (1050) if the volume manager (175) is completing a volume move or a volume split. A computer- implemented method according to claim 18, further comprising replacing files from the source volume (115) that are duplicated to the destination volume (120) with a junction (1055) operative to link the destination volume to the source volume if volume manager (175) is completing a volume split. A computer- implemented method according to claim 18, further comprising revising (1060) the volume location database (185) to direct requests for files in the set of files moved to the destination volume (120). A computer program, which when executing on a computer system, is capable of performing the steps of any one of claims 11 to 20. The computer program of claim 21, when stored on a computer readable medium. <seperator>EP-1747870-A1<id_sep>classB29class subgroupB29B17slash02subgroup sectionBsection subclassB29Bsubclass Method for recycling plastic material The present invention relates to a method and equipment for recycling plastic material, particularly plastic material combined with materials of a different nature, such as the one deriving from the recycling either of household appliances or other complex products. Particularly, the present invention relates to a recycling method for obtaining recovery plastic material, comprising at least one isolating step of said recovery plastic material and one surface purification step of said isolated recovery plastic material, in which said surface purification step provides that said recovery plastic material is simultaneously subjected to a heat and abrasive treatment.  The present invention relates to a method and equipment for recycling plastic material, particularly plastic material combined with materials of a different nature, such as the one deriving from the recycling either of household appliances or other composite products. With the term "composite product" is meant a complex product containing materials of a different nature, such as for example plastic materials of various type, metals or other non-metallic materials such as glass, wood, etc. With the term "composite material", such as employed in the continuation of the present specification, is meant the mixture of materials of a various nature which derive from the grinding of said composite products, containing discrete pieces of a single material, as well as pieces consisting of two or more materials (metal-plastic, plastic-foamed plastic, etc.). The discarded material recycling industry has acquired an ever-increasing importance essentially for environmental reasons. In fact, it is advantageous to reduce the amount of material being either conveyed to the waste dump sites, which have to be included within limited surfaces, or the incinerators, which are often subject to criticism due to their polluting potential deriving from the fumes flowing from the system which contain substances harmful to health, if they are not damped. Beyond the environmental reasons, solid economical reasons inducing to reclaim the highest percentage possible of the discarded materials also exist. In fact, waste disposal represents a high cost for society. This cost can be at least partially recovered if the materials to be disposed of may find an economically advantageous use. In this sense, the waste incineration leads to an energy recovery in terms of heat (the so-called "heat-utilization") which can be used either for the domestic heating or for generating electric energy even for industrial purposes. On the other hand, with regard to the material recovery, these materials may either be recirculated together with the blank material or be employed for applications in which a high qualitative standard (either charge materials or fillers or materials for manufacturing poor products) is not required, if they are of a lower quality. A different examination is required for the recycling either of household appliances or complex products in general, such as refrigerators, microwave ovens, air-conditioners, computers, telephones and other electronic materials. In fact, these products include metal parts of various nature (iron, steel, nonferrous metals such as aluminium and copper), different plastic materials (foamed polyurethanes, polystyrene, ABS, etc.) and sometimes glass and wood. In that case, it is advantageous to separate the different materials from one another so as to head the latter to a reuse thereof and reduce the volume of waste products to be conveyed either to the waste dump sites or the heat-utilization, if possible, to a minimum. Therefore, the technical efforts which have been carried out in the field are aimed at designing recycling processes which allow the single materials to be high-throughput separated from one another. Particularly, it is important that the different plastic materials are efficiently separated from one another, by selecting on the one hand the materials difficult to be recycled (such as the foamed polyurethane and the foamed plastics in general) which will be destined either to the waste dump site or the incineration, and on the other hand the different plastic materials which have higher potentialities to be reused. Moreover, an ideal recycling system will also require low initial and management costs, because of the low added value of the treated products. A method for recycling composite material for obtaining recovery plastic material, comprising at least one isolating step of said recovery plastic material and one surface purification step of said isolated recovery plastic material, wherein said surface purification step provides that said recovery plastic material may be simultaneously subjected to a heat and abrasive treatment. The recycling method according to claim 1, wherein said surface purification step of the recovery plastic material provides that centrifugal stirring means (404) in which said heat and abrasive treatment is obtained due to the friction among the pieces of plastic material and between said pieces of plastic material and the centrifugal stirring means (404) may be provided. The recycling method according to claim 2, wherein said centrifugal stirring means (404) comprise a cylindrical shell (405), on the bottom of which a blade (406) is rotatably arranged, said blade (406) having a wedge-shaped edge (408) being turned towards the revolving direction. The method according to claim 2 or 3, wherein the revolving speed of said centrifugal stirring means (404) is higher than 1000 rpm, preferably higher than 1200 rpm, more preferably about 1400 rpm. The method according to any of the claims 2 to 4, wherein the temperature inside said centrifugal stirring means (404) is lower than the softening temperature of the recovery plastic material. The method according to any of the claims 2 to 5, wherein said centrifugal stirring means (404) are filled for 30-50% of the volume thereof. The method according to any of the claims 2 to 6, wherein the determination/adjustment of the filling degree of said centrifugal stirring means (404) is performed by measuring the current absorption of the motorization (407) of said centrifugal stirring means (404) and calibrating the equipment such that a certain filling degree corresponds to a predetermined current absorption of said motorization, so that when this current absorption is obtained, the material loading into said centrifugal stirring means (404) will be suspended. The method according to any of the claims 2 to 7, wherein said centrifugal stirring means (404) comprise loading means (410) and discharge means (411) of said recovery plastic material, comprising screw conveyers provided with a storage tank, the adjustment of the residence time of the material inside said centrifugal stirring means (404) being obtained either by operating or deactivating said loading and discharge means (410, 411). The method according to claim 7 or 8, wherein said adjustment of the filling degree of said centrifugal stirring means (404) is automatically controlled by a control and monitoring unit which reads the absorption of said motorization (407) and accordingly operates/deactivates said loading and discharge means (410, 411). The method according to claim 9, wherein the adjustment of the residence time of the recovery plastic material in said centrifugal stirring means (404) is automatically carried out by said control and monitoring unit, either by pre-setting the residence time of the material in the centrifugal stirring means (404), or by reading the temperature within the shell (405), by means of suitable sensors, and activating said discharge means (411) if the temperature exceeds a predetermined threshold. The recycling method according to any of the claims 1 to 10, wherein said isolating step of said recovery plastic material is carried out by dipping the material to be treated in a selecting means having an average density between the specific weight of the material to be selected and the one of the materials to be wasted, such that the material having a specific weight which is lower than the density of said selecting means floats, whereas the materials having a higher specific weight sink. The recycling method according to clam 11, wherein said selecting means is a salt aqueous solution, preferably a sodium chloride aqueous solution. The recycling method according to any of the claims 1 to 12, wherein said recovery plastic material is subjected to a drying process by means of centrifugal means (403), upstream of said surface purification step. The recycling method according to any of the claims 1 to 13, wherein said recovery plastic material is subjected to one or more dust separating stages and to at least one washing stage, downstream of said centrifugal stirring means (404). The recycling method according to claim 14, wherein said one or more dust separating stages are carried out in screening means (412) and/or in a centrifugal separator (415). The recycling method according to any of the claims 1 to 15, comprising a cleaning step of said composite material from the residues of said metallic materials, synthetic discarded materials such as foamed materials and non-plastic materials such as wood and glass and from tacky residues. The recycling method according to any of the claims 1 to 16, comprising the following steps in succession:  The recycling method according to claim 17, wherein said composite material leaving said grinding step (a) has a mean size of 35-40 mm. The recycling method according to claim 17, wherein said separating step (b) comprises: i) a de-ironing stage by magnetic attraction, ii) a draw-in stage of the light materials, iii) a first demetallizing stage for removing copper and aluminium, and iv) a second demetallizing stage for removing the metallic materials having a higher specific weight and glass. The recycling method according to claim 19, wherein said draw-in stage ii) of the light materials comprises a recovery stage of material which is different from the synthetic foamed material driven in said draw-in stage. The recycling method according to claim 20, wherein said recovery stage is carried out by causing the drawn-in material to flow through a cyclone (105) from the bottom of which said material being different from the synthetic foamed material is collected and transferred to a centrifugal separator (112), by means of a star valve (108) and loading means (109). The recycling method according to claim 21, wherein said centrifugal separator (112) comprises a cone-shaped body (113) having a drawn-in upper aperture and a lower exhaust opening, a cone-shaped motorized rotor (116) being rotatably supported in a coaxial position in said cone-shaped body (113), said rotor (116) having a vertex angle which is higher than the one of the upper portion of the cone-shaped body (113), blades (117) being arranged on the surface of said rotor (116). The recycling method according to claim 22, wherein said rotor (116) is longitudinally sliding. The recycling method according to claim 19, wherein said second demetallizing stage comprises the treatment of the composite material on vibrating screening means (124) comprising a vibrating plane (125), being set in vibration by vibrating means (126) giving an up-and-down motion with a longitudinal and vertical component to the plane (125), and intake ports (131', 131") for drawing in the recovery plastic material in a substantially selective manner compared to the metals having a higher specific weight and glass. The recycling method according to claim 24, wherein said vibrating plane (125) is divided into two longitudinal portions (125a, 125b) by a board (127) and wherein frames (129', 129") are arranged on said vibrating plane (125), the distance of which can be adjusted relative to said vibrating plane (125) by means of adjusting screws (130), said intake ports (131', 131") being arranged on said frames (129', 129"). The recycling method according to claim 16 or 17, wherein said cleaning step (c) of the recovery plastic material comprises the treatment of said material in a mill (208) comprising a cylindrical body (209) provided with an upper loading opening and an exhaust opening (210) being filtered by a gauged netting (230), from which the treated material is drawn in by means of suitable handling means (211), a support (212) on which one or more hammers (218) are rotatably hinged in neutral being rotatably arranged within said cylindrical body (209). The recycling method according to claim 26, wherein said hammers (218) end with a tooth (219) at the distal end, and wherein ribbings (220) are placed onto the inner wall of the cylindrical body (209), the distance between the teeth (219) and the ribbings (220) being lower than the mean size of the material to be treated. The recycling method according to claim 26 or 27, wherein said support (212) revolves at 600-800 rpm and wherein a cold air current is inserted into said mill, the ratio of the volume of the material to be treated to the volume of the air introduced being 1 : 10. The recycling method according to claim 17, wherein said washing step (d) of said blank recovery plastic material comprises the washing of said material with water and the drying of said washed material in centrifugal means (303) comprising a drilled basket (304) inside which a rotor (305), onto which a plurality of blades (306) is placed, is rotatably arranged in a coaxial position, said blades (306) being staggered arranged and having a substantially sectional wedge shape, having the oblique side arranged upwards and the vertex in the revolving direction of the rotor (305). The recycling method according to any of the claims 1 to 29, wherein said recovery plastic material is polystyrene. The recycling method according to any of the claims 1 to 30, wherein the composite product being the object of the recycling is either a refrigerator or the like. A centrifugal separator (112, 201, 221, 415) such as defined in claim 22 or 23. A mill (208) such as defined in any of the claims 26 to 28. Centrifugal stirring means (404) such as defined in any of the claims 3, 4, or 8, being associated to a control and monitoring unit as defined in claim 9 or 10. Centrifugal means (303) such as defined in claim 29. <seperator>EP-1406213-A1<id_sep>classG06class sectionGsection groupG06T3slash00group subclassG06Tsubclass INFORMATION PROCESSOR In an information processing apparatus for conducting an affine transformation representative of  TECHNICAL FIELD The present invention relates to a technology of the imaging of a three-dimensional image, and especially, to a technology for reducing geometry calculation and processing of division which are conducted in processing of the imaging of the three-dimensional image, and realizing the imaging of three-dimensional graphics even in an information processing apparatus which does not have an FPU (floating-point processing unit) and an information processing apparatus which has low throughput of a CPU. Background Technology In case of imaging three-dimensional graphics, an information processing terminal conducts Usually, a CPU of an information processing apparatus itself takes charge of work of what is called geometry calculation of (1) and (2), and conducts the processing utilizing an FPU (floating-point processing unit) of the CPU. Further, the processing of what is called rasterize of (3) and (4) is usually conducted a 3D graphics accelerator. However, although the work of what is called the geometry calculation of (1) and (2) is conducted by utilizing the FPU (floating-point processing unit) of the CPU, the FPU is designed so as to conduct not only the geometry calculation but also the calculation of a general floating-point, and in addition, the CPU conducts other processing, it is not necessarily suitable for the processing of the imaging of the three-dimensional graphics. Accordingly, a 3D graphics accelerator designed so as to conduct the geometry calculation by means of a graphics chip (in other words, in which a geometry engine is build) appears, and it devises to lower a load rate of a CPU, and in addition, the capacity of the geometry calculation can be drastically improved above all, in other words, the imaging capacity of 3D can be improved, compared with a case where it is conducted by the CPU. However, the 3D graphics accelerator is expensive, and it is not equipped with all information processing apparatuses. Further, in the information processing apparatuses, there is one which does not have not only the 3D graphics accelerator but also an FPU (floating-point processing unit), like in a mobile telephone and PDA (Personal Digital (Data) Assistants) for example. In such an information processing apparatus, generally the capacity of the CPU is also low, and it is said that the 3D graphics is hardly possible. Further, the speed of division processing is much lower than that of multiplication processing, and in order to conduct calculation processing at a high speed, it is preferable to reduce the division as much as possible. Therefore, the objective of the present invention is to provide a technology for realizing the imaging of the three-dimensional graphics even in the information processing apparatus which does not have the FPU (floating-point processing unit) by conducting integer calculation processing in the geometry calculation that is conducted in the processing of the imaging of the three-dimensional graphics. Also, the objective of the present invention is to provide a technology for realizing the imaging of the three-dimensional graphics at a high speed even in the information processing apparatus which has the CPU having low processing capacity by conducting rasterize processing without conducting division in the rasterize processing. An information processing apparatus for conducting imaging of a three-dimensional image, in which coordinate values are limited to integers, and transformation processing is applied to coordinates (x,y,z)t to create coordinates (x',y',z')t by means of an affine transformation representative of characterized in that the apparatus has:  An information processing apparatus recited in claim 1, characterized in that said λ is limited to 2n(n≥1), and    said calculation means is means for calculating divisional calculation of x' = (a'11*x + a'12*y + a'13*z) / λ + t1;y' = (a'21*x + a'22*y + a'23*z) / λ + t2;z' = (a'31*x + a'32*y + a'33*z) / λ + t3; by conducting right-shifting by n digits. An information processing apparatus recited in claim 2, characterized in that said calculation means is means for conducting the calculation by conducting right-shifting by n digits after adding a constant λ/2 to each number to be divided. An information processing apparatus recited in any of claim 1 to claim 3, characterized in that the apparatus has synthesis means for synthesizing two or more parameters that are multiplied by λ (≠ 0) in advance. An information processing apparatus recited in any of claim 1 to claim 4, characterized in that the apparatus further has:  An imaging processing method of a three-dimensional image, in which coordinate values are limited to integers, and transformation processing is applied to coordinates (x,y,z)t to create coordinates (x',y',z')t by means of an affine transformation representative of characterized in that the method has steps of:  An imaging processing method recited in claim 6, characterized in that said λ is limited to 2n(n≥1), and    said calculating step is a step of calculating division ofx' = (a'11*x + a'12*y + a'13*z) / λ + t1;y' = (a'21*x + a'22*y + a'23*z) / λ + t2;z' = (a'31*x + a'32*y + a'33*z) / λ + t3; by conducting right-shifting by n digits to calculate the coordinates (x',y',z')t. An imaging processing method recited in claim 7, characterized in that the method further has a step of adding a constant λ /2 to each number to be divided before conducting said right-shifting by n digits. An imaging processing method recited in any of claim 6 to claim 8, characterized in that the method further has a step of synthesizing two or more parameters that are multiplied by λ (≠0) in advance. An imaging processing method recited in any of claim 6 to claim 9, characterized in that the method further has steps of:  A program for making an information processing apparatus apply transformation processing to coordinates (x,y,z)t to create coordinates (x',y',z')t by means of an affine transformation representative of in which coordinate values are limited to integers, characterized in that the program has steps of:  A program recited in claim 11, characterized in that, in case that said λ is limited to 2n(n≥1),    said calculating step in said program is a step of, in the information processing apparatus, calculating division of x' = (a'11*x + a'12*y + a'13*z) / λ + t1;y' = (a'21*x + a'22*y + a'23*z) / λ + t2;z' = (a'31*x + a'32*y + a'33*z) / λ + t3; by conducting right-shifting by n digits to calculate the coordinates (x',y',z')t. A program recited in claim 12, characterized in that, in the information processing apparatus, the program further has a step of adding a constant λ /2 to each number to be divided before conducting said right-shifting by n digits. A program recited in any of claim 11 to claim 13, characterized in that, in the information processing apparatus, the program further has a step of synthesizing two or more parameters that are multiplied by λ (≠0) in advance. A program recited in any of claim 11 to claim 14, characterized in that, in the information processing apparatus, the program further has steps of:  A record medium in which a program for making an information processing apparatus apply transformation processing to coordinates (x,y,z)t to create coordinates (x',y',z')t by means of an affine transformation representative of  is stored, wherein coordinate values are limited to integers, characterized in that said program has steps of:  A record medium in which the program is stored recited in claim 16, characterized in that, in case that said λ is limited to 2n(n≥1),    said calculating step in said program is a step of, in the information processing apparatus, calculating division of x' = (a'11*x + a'12*y + a'13*z) / λ + t1;y' = (a'21*x + a'22*y + a'23*z) / λ + t2;z' = (a'31*x + a'32*y + a'33*z) / λ + t3; by conducting right-shifting by n digits to calculate the coordinates (x',y',z')t. A record medium in which the program is stored recited in claim 17, characterized in that, in the information processing apparatus, said program further has a step of adding a constant λ/2 to each number to be divided before conducting said right-shifting by n digits. A record medium in which the program is stored recited in any of claim 16 to claim 18, characterized in that, in the information processing apparatus, said program further has a step of synthesizing two or more parameters that are multiplied by λ (≠0) in advance. A record medium in which the program is stored recited in any of claim 16 to claim 19, characterized in that, in the information processing apparatus, said program further has steps of:  <seperator>EP-1298879-A2<id_sep>sectionHsection subgroupH04W76slash02subgroup subgroupH04L12slash28subgroup subgroupG06F15slash16subgroup classG06class groupH04W56slash00group subgroupH04L29slash06subgroup subgroupH04L12slash56subgroup classH04class sectionGsection subgroupH04W28slash16subgroup subgroupG06F15slash163subgroup subgroupH04W28slash18subgroup groupH04W76slash00group subgroupH04W76slash06subgroup subgroupH04L29slash08subgroup subclassH04Wsubclass subgroupG06F13slash10subgroup subclassG06Fsubclass subclassH04Lsubclass Software method for maintaining connectivity between applications during communications by mobile computer terminals operable in wireless networks A method of maintaining connectivity and synchronization of data from a first application resident in a first mobile computer to a second application resident in a second computer wherein the data is transmitted over a data communications network including a plurality of stationary access points, determining, in said first mobile computer, that communications between the first mobile computer and the second computer has been impeded, and that association with a different access point or use of a different radio channel should be attempted in order to continue communications; storing and queuing the messages while a new link is established; and re-establishing a link between first and second virtual sockets in the respective computers in order to continue a session between the first and second applications in the first and second computer respectively.  This application is related to copending US Patent Application Serial No. 09/686,755 filed October 10, 2000, which is a divisional of Serial No. 09/166,816, filed October 5, 1998. The apparatus and methods consistent with the present invention relates to portable computers, such as bar code reader computer terminals connected to wireless networks, and more particularly to the network architecture, operating system APIs, configuration software, and inter-network messaging and communications protocols needed to support communications between application programs being executed in separate mobile units operated in such networks, and from network to network. Wireless local area networks use infrared or radio frequency communications channels to communicate between portable or mobile computer terminals and stationary access points or base stations. These access points are in turn connected by a wired (or possibly wireless) communication channel to a network infrastructure which connects groups of access points together to form a local area network, including, optionally, one or more servers or host computer systems. One increasingly important type of mobile computer are those which are coupled to or incorporates a bar code symbol reader, and are now in very common use for portable data collection applications. Typically, a bar code symbol comprises one or more rows of light and dark regions, typically in the form of rectangle. The relative widths of the dark regions, the bars and/or the widths of the light regions, the spaces, encode data or information in the symbol. A bar code symbol reader illuminates the symbol and senses light reflected from the regions of differing light reflectivity to detect the relative widths and spacings of the regions and derive the encoded information. Bar code reading data collection application software, executing on such mobile computers, improve the efficiency and accuracy of data input for a wide variety of applications. The ease of data input in such systems facilitates more frequent and detailed data input, for example, to provide efficient taking of inventories, tracking of work in progress, and make use of applications programs that may communicate to and interoperate with other applications programs operating on a remote host or server which the mobile computer communicates with through a wireless network. Wireless and radio frequency (RF) protocols are known which support the logical interconnection of mobile computers and roaming terminals having a variety of types of communication capabilities to host computers. The logical interconnections are based upon an infrastructure in which at least some each of the remote terminals are capable of communicating with at least two of the access points when located within a predetermined range therefrom, each terminal unit being normally associated with and in communication with a single one of such access points. Based on the overall spatial layout, response time, and loading requirements of the network, different networking schemes and communication protocols have been designed so as to most efficiently regulate the communications between a given terminal and the network through the selected access point. One such protocol is set forth in the ISO/IEC 8802-11, or ANSI/IEEE Std 802.11 entitled "Wireless LAN Medium Access Control (MAC) and Physical Layer (PHY) Specifications" (1999 edition) available from the IEEE Standards Department, Piscataway, NJ (hereinafter the "IEEE 802.11 Standard"). A method of maintaining connectivity and synchronization of data from a first application resident in a first mobile computer to a second application resident in a remote second computer wherein the data is transmitted between the computers over a data communications network, comprising:  A method as defined in claim 1, wherein the communications interface software module emulates a standard communications API so that calls to the standard communications API from legacy applications are capable of being processed by said software module. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein the application in the first mobile computer is a data collection application utilizing a bar code reader to input data to the computer. The method of claim 3, further including the step of temporarily storing information received from the data collection application and intended for the second computer during such time that the communication session is suspended, and transmitting the stored information to the second computer upon resuming the communication session. The method of claim 4, wherein following the step of resuming communications, the communications interface software module forwards all information received from the data collection application and intended for the second computer to the second computer. The method of claim 1, wherein the mobile computer reconfigures its communications by operating at a different data rate on the same channel. The method of claim 1, wherein the mobile computer reconfigures its communications by operating at a different signal modulation on the same channel. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein the application in the first mobile computer is a data display application utilizing a browser. The method of claim 8, further including the step of temporarily storing information in the first mobile computer received from the second computer for the data display application, and during such time that the communication session is suspended, allowing the use of the first mobile computer to browse the stored information by executing the data display application. The method of claim 8, wherein following the step of resuming communications, the communications interface software module forwards all request for data from the second computer from the browser application and intended for the first mobile computer to the first mobile computer. A method of maintaining connectivity and synchronization of data from a firstapplication resident in a first mobile computer to a second application resident in a second computer wherein the data is transmitted over a data communications network including a plurality of stationary access points and at least one communications controller in communication with the access points, and a plurality of remote mobile computers, at least some of the mobile computers being capable of communicating with at least two of the access points when located within a predetermined range therefrom and being normally associated with and in communications with a single one of such access points, each mobile computer having a unique user address, comprising:  A method as defined in claim 11, wherein the data communication network is a wireless local area network. A method as defined in claim 11, wherein the step of determining includes detecting which other communication networks are available for establishing a new communication link. A method as defined in claim 13, wherein the first radio link utilizes TDMA and the second radio link utilizes GSM. A method as defined in claim 13, wherein the first radio link couples to a packet switched network and the second radio link couples to a circuit switched network. <seperator>EP-1315252-A1<id_sep>subgroupH01R13slash24subgroup sectionHsection subgroupH01R13slash22subgroup subgroupH01R13slash652subgroup classH01class subclassH01Rsubclass subgroupH01R13slash648subgroup subgroupH01R13slash658subgroup groupH01R24slash00group Electrical connector with improved electrostatic discharge system An electrical connector (10) includes a dielectric housing (12), with a plurality of conductive terminals (16) mounted in the housing (12). At least one of the terminals is a ground terminal (16A). A metal shield (14) is mounted on the housing (12). An intermediate conductive terminal (42) is mounted on the housing (12) and includes one end (50) engaging the metal shield (14) and an opposite end (52) engaging the ground terminal (16A).   This invention generally relates to the art of electrical connectors and, particularly, to an electrostatic discharge system for electrical connectors.  An electrical connector often has a mating end at which conductive terminals are exposed for engagement with the terminals of a complementary mating connector. For instance, the connector may include a receptacle within which contact portions of the terminals are exposed for engagement with the terminals of a complementary plug connector. If an individual touches one or more contact portions of the terminals, as with the person's finger, an electrostatic charge may be created and discharged through the terminals and damage may result to interior components with which the connector is electrically coupled. In order to avoid such problems with electrostatic charges, various types of means have been proposed, such as mounting shutter plates at the mating ends of connectors to prevent accidental engagement with the contact portions of the terminals. In addition, Japanese Patent Laid-Open No. 11-259617 discloses a plate-like conductive member mounted at the mating end of an electrical connector and connected to a metal cover so that an electrostatic charge, if any, is discharged by the conductive member to the metal cover. Electronic components, such as integrated circuits for a portable information terminal set, are usually mounted on printed circuit boards or flat flexible cables which, in turn, are disposed in a connection end of an electrical connector that is installed in the terminal set. However, efforts have not been successful in providing electrostatic discharge prevention means for the electrical connector and the printed circuit board or flat flexible cable. Accordingly, when connecting or disconnecting the electrical connector or the printed circuit board or flat flexible cable, electrostatic charges may cause damage to the electronic components such as the integrated circuits. Any efforts have involved grounding shields which are soldered directly to the printed circuit board or the shield has an integrated terminal arm engageable with the printed circuit. The use of solder is not always the best choice since solder is an additional process which adds to the cost of manufacture. In addition, because soldering processes require heat, which can damage nearby components, the soldering process must be highly controlled to avoid damage. Manufacturing a shield with an integral terminal arm having a consistent contact pressure on a flexible printed circuit also is very difficult to manufacture. The present invention is directed to solving these problems in a solderless electrostatic discharge system for such connectors.  An object, therefore, of the invention is to provide an electrical connector with a new and improved electrostatic discharge system. In the exemplary embodiment of the invention, an electrical connector includes a dielectric housing having a connector mating face and a circuit board receiving face. A plurality of conductive terminals are mounted in the housing. Each terminal includes a contact end generally at the connector mating face of the housing and a board-engaging end generally at the circuit board receiving face of the housing. At least one of the terminals is a ground terminal. A metal shield is mounted on the housing about at least the connector mating face thereof. An intermediate conductive terminal is mounted on the housing and includes one end engaging the metal shield and an opposite end engaging the ground terminal. An electrical connector, comprising:  The electrical connector of claim 1 wherein said one end (50) of the intermediate terminal (42) abuts against an inner surface of the metal shield (14) and said opposite end (52) of the intermediate terminal (42) abuts the ground terminal (16A). The electrical connector of claim 2 wherein said intermediate terminal (42) is stamped and formed from conductive sheet metal material with its opposite ends (50, 52) formed for surface abutting the metal shield (14) and the ground terminal (16A). The electrical connector of claim 1 wherein said intermediate terminal (42) includes a resilient portion (54) between its opposite ends to provide a contact pressure with the metal shield (14) and the ground terminal (16A). The electrical connector of claim 4 wherein said resilient portion (54) is generally S-shaped. The electrical connector of claim 5 wherein said intermediate terminal (42) is stamped and formed of conductive sheet metal material with said S-shaped resilient portion (54) being generally planar and with the opposite ends (50, 52) of the intermediate terminal being formed to extend out of the plane of the S-shaped resilient portion (54). The electrical connector of claim 1 wherein said intermediate terminal (42) is disposed for free movement within a groove (40) in the housing (12). The electrical connector of claim 7 wherein said intermediate terminal (42) includes a resilient portion (54) between its opposite ends (50, 52) to provide a contact pressure with the metal shield (14) and the ground terminal (16A), said resilient portion (54) being located substantially in said groove (40), and the opposite ends (50, 52) of the intermediate terminal (42) being exposed at opposite ends of the groove (40) for engaging the metal shield (14) and the ground terminal (16A). An electrical connector, comprising:  The electrical connector of claim 9 wherein said resilient portion (54) of the intermediate terminal is generally S-shaped. The electrical connector of claim 10 wherein said intermediate terminal (42) is stamped and formed of conductive sheet metal material with said S-shaped resilient portion (54) being generally planar and with the opposite ends (50, 52) of the intermediate terminal (42) being formed to extend out of the plane of the S-shaped resilient portion (54). An electrical connector, comprising:  The electrical connector of claim 12 wherein said one end (50) of the intermediate terminal (16) abuts against an inner surface of the metal shield (14) and said opposite end (52) of the intermediate terminal (16) abuts the ground terminal (16A). The electrical connector of claim 13 wherein said intermediate terminal (42) is stamped and formed from conductive sheet metal material with its opposite ends formed for surface abutting the metal shield (14) and the ground terminal (16A). The electrical connector of claim 12 wherein said intermediate terminal (42) includes a resilient portion (54) between its opposite ends (50, 52) to provide a contact pressure with the metal shield (14) and the ground terminal (16A). The electrical connector of claim 15 wherein said resilient portion (54) is generally S-shaped. The electrical connector of claim 16 wherein said intermediate terminal (42) is stamped and formed of conductive sheet metal material with said S-shaped resilient portion (54) being generally planar and with the opposite ends (50, 52) of the intermediate terminal (42) being formed to extend out of the plane of the S-shaped resilient portion (54) . The electrical connector of claim 12 wherein said intermediate terminal (42) is disposed for free movement within a groove (40) in the housing (12). The electrical connector of claim 18 wherein said intermediate terminal (42) includes a resilient portion (54) between its opposite ends to provide a contact pressure with the metal shield (14) and the ground terminal (16A), said resilient portion (54) being located substantially in said groove (40), and the opposite ends (50, 52) of the intermediate terminal (42) being exposed at opposite ends of the groove (40) for engaging the metal shield (14) and the ground terminal (16A). <seperator>EP-1365142-A2<id_sep>classF02class groupF02M63slash00group subgroupF02M59slash36subgroup subgroupF02M59slash20subgroup classF04class subclassF04Bsubclass subgroupF02M59slash10subgroup subgroupF02M59slash44subgroup subgroupF02M59slash34subgroup subgroupF04B49slash24subgroup groupF02M55slash00group subgroupF04B49slash035subgroup subgroupF02M55slash04subgroup subgroupF04B49slash22subgroup subgroupF04B53slash16subgroup subclassF02Msubclass groupF02M59slash00group sectionFsection subgroupF02M63slash02subgroup groupF04B53slash00group subgroupF02M59slash46subgroup subgroupF02M55slash02subgroup subgroupF04B49slash02subgroup High-pressure fuel pump The invention relates to a simple structured highpressure fuel pump. A fuel pump comprises a reciprocably-supported cylinder (20), a pressurizing chamber (12) using part of the outer surface of the cylinder as the wall surface which move to change the internal volume, a fuel intake passage (10) forming a fuel passage which introduces fuel to the pressurizing chamber (12), a fuel discharge passage (11) for the compressed fuel coming out from the pressurizing chamber (12). A fuel intake valve (5) is provided in fuel intake passage (10). A fuel discharge valve (6) is provided in said fuel discharge passage (11). A connecting passage (105) connects upstream side of the intake valve (5) in the fuel intake passage (10) and the downstream side of it. A check valve (102a) which flows fuel from the fuel discharge flow passage (11) to the fuel intake passage (10) is provided in the connecting passage (105).  This invention relates to a fuel pump. Japanese Application Patent Laid-Open Publication No. 2001-55961 discloses a fuel supplying system equipped with a throttle member for dampening pulsation of high-pressure fuel in a high-pressure fuel discharge passage in the downstream side of a branch in a branch passage which contains a high-pressure regulator. The internal pressure of the high-pressure fuel supply system is determined by the high-pressure regulator. This invention can make the service lives of the high-pressure fuel pump and the cam shaft longer and reduce the operating pressure range of the high-pressure damper without increasing the internal pressure of the high-pressure fuel supply system due to a pressure loss. The invention disclosed by Japanese Application Patent Laid-Open Publication No. 2001-55961 requires an exhaust pipe between the high-pressure regulator and the fuel tank. This makes the fuel supply system complicated and raises its production cost. An object of the present invention is to provide a high-pressure fuel pump of a simpler structure. To accomplish the above object, the present invention makes the fuel intake passage and the discharge passage close to each other in the fuel pump, provides a passage to connect these passages, and/or further provides a relief valve in this connecting passage. This can keep the fuel pump compact and omit a pipe in the engine. The fuel pump can preferably be made compacter by placing the fuel intake passage and the discharge passage in parallel, providing a passage perpendicular to these passages to connect them with each other, and providing a relief valve in the connecting passage.  We inventors studied and examined the high-pressure fuel pumps from all angles. The pump is equipped with a mechanism for regulating a rate of the discharged fuel. The fuel pump is controlled so that, in the normal operation, an optimal quantity of fuel may be fed to the engine. The accumulator receives fuel from the fuel pump and sends fuel to the combustion chamber of the engine through a fuel injection valve. This composition enables balancing of the fuel discharge rate of the fuel pump and the fuel injection rate of the fuel injection valve, and controlling of the fuel pressure in the accumulator. This accumulator is also equipped with a relief valve. The opening pressure of the relief valve is made higher than the target maximum fuel pressure in the normal operation. The relief valve opens to flow fuel from the accumulator to the fuel intake passage only when the fuel pressure is going to go over a preset fuel pressure to protect the accumulator and the pipe system (e.g. when the fuel system malfunctions or is disabled while the engine is running or when the fuel temperature goes up while the engine stops). To open this relief valve steadily or to prevent instantaneous opening of the relief valve when the engine is running, the accumulator is made bigger in the volume or an orifice is provided in part of the discharge passage and thus the instantaneous fuel pressure rise by the discharge of the fuel pump is made smaller than that at the discharge port of the fuel pump. This makes the discharge rate of the fuel pump approximately equal to the injection rate of the fuel injection valve, runs the fuel ump efficiently, and prevents the rise of fuel temperature due to the discharge of fuel from the relief valve. A fuel pump comprising:  The fuel pump of claim 1, wherein said check valve (102a) works as a relief valve (102) that flows fuel from said fuel discharge passage (11) to said fuel intake passage (10) when the fuel pressure in the fuel intake passage (10) exceeds a preset value. The fuel pump of claim 1, wherein said connecting passage (105) is provided in said pump. The fuel pump of claim 1, wherein said pump contains a joint of said fuel intake passage (10) and said connecting passage (105) and a joint of said fuel discharge passage (11) and said connecting passage (105). The fuel pump of claim 4, wherein said fuel intake passage (10), said fuel discharge passage (11), and said connecting passage (105) are provided in an identical metal or plastic block. The fuel pump of claim 1, wherein said fuel intake passage (10) and said fuel discharge passage (11) are placed in parallel to each other; a connecting passage (105) is provided approximately perpendicularly to these passages (10, 11) to connect these passages (10, 11) with each other; and said connecting passage (105) contains a relief valve (102) to flow fuel from the discharge valve side to the intake valve side. The fuel pump of claim 1, wherein a throttle section is provided in a flow passage said fuel discharge passage (11) and said check valve (102a). The fuel pump of claim 7, wherein a fuel chamber (106) having a flow passage expanded is provided between said throttle section and said relief valve (102). The fuel pump of claim 7, wherein a damper whose volume varies by fuel pressure is provided in contact with fuel between said throttle section and said relief valve (102). The fuel pump of claim 1, wherein one end of said connecting passage (105) is open to the outside of the pump; said opening section is equipped with a primary blind plug having a sealing section that prevents fuel from flowing from said connecting passage (105) to the outside of the pump; a secondary blind plug, which has a relief valve (102) for letting fuel through from the discharge valve side to the intake valve side and a sealing section for stopping fuel between said intake side and said discharge side except the place of said relief valve (102), is provided between the opening toward said discharge passage (11) and the opening toward said fuel intake passage (10). The fuel pump of claim 10, wherein said primary blind plug and said secondary blind plug are formed in a body. The fuel pump of claim 10 or 11, wherein the sealing section of said primary blind plug is a rubber contact seal and the sealing section of said secondary blind plug is a metal contact seal. The fuel pump of claim 6, wherein said connecting passage (105) and said fuel intake passage (10) are disposed with their center lines offset and intersected with each other and said blind plug is placed on the intersection. A fuel pump comprising a fuel intake passage (10), a fuel discharge passage (11), a fuel intake valve (5) provided in said fuel intake passage (10), a fuel discharge valve (6) provided in said discharge passage (11), a pressurizing chamber (12) provided between said intake valve (5) and said discharge valve (6), and a mechanism for metering fuel discharged from said pressurizing chamber (12), wherein a connecting passage (105) is provided in the front side of the said intake valve (5) and the rear side of said discharge valve (6) and contains a relief valve (102) to flow fuel from the discharge valve (6) to the intake valve (5). <seperator>EP-1363484-A2<id_sep>sectionHsection sectionBsection classH01class subgroupB65D25slash20subgroup classB65class subclassF21Vsubclass subclassH05Ksubclass subgroupH05K7slash20subgroup groupF21V31slash00group subclassH01Rsubclass subclassB65Dsubclass subclassH02Ksubclass groupF24F7slash00group groupF16K24slash00group subgroupH02K5slash10subgroup classH02class classF21class classF24class classH05class subclassF24Fsubclass subgroupH01R13slash52subgroup sectionFsection subclassF16Ksubclass classF16class subgroupF21V31slash03subgroup subgroupH05K5slash02subgroup Ventilation member and vented housing using the same A ventilation member (1) having: a breathable film (4) transmitting gas passing through an opening portion (8) of a housing (7) in a state in which the breathable film (4) is fixed to the opening portion (8); and a support (2) including a supporting portion (2a) for supporting the breathable film (4) and an insertion portion (2b) to be inserted into the opening portion (8) of the housing (7); wherein a lock structure for locking the support (2) in the housing (7) by rotating the support (2) around a central axis of the support (2) is formed in the insertion portion (2b).  The present application is based on Japanese Patent Application No. 2002-140629, the entire contents of which are incorporated by reference. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to a ventilation member fixed to a housing for automobile electrical components or the like, and the housing to which the ventilation member is fixed. Ventilation members are attached to various housings of automobile electrical components such as ECUs (Electronic Control Units), lamps, motors, various sensors, pressure switches and actuators; cellular phones; cameras; electric shavers; electric toothbrushes; and lamps for outdoor use. Each of the ventilation members prevents water or dust from invading the inside of a housing while playing various roles in accordance with the kind of housing to which the ventilation member is attached. The roles include propagation of voice, discharge of gas generated inside the housing, and relaxation of a change of pressure inside the housing caused by a change of temperature. Figs. 13A and 13B show an example of a related-art ventilation member. A ventilation member 51 shown in each of Figs. 13A and 13B is used for an equipment housing to be exposed to contaminants such as rain, muddy water or oils, for example, for automobile electric components. The ventilation member 51 has an L-shaped or U-shaped (not shown) tubular body. The ventilation member 51 may have a structure having a maze 52 internally. One end of the ventilation member 51 is outer-fitted to a neck portion 50a provided in a housing 50 so that the ventilation member 51 is fixed to the housing. Figs. 14A and 14B show another example of a related-art ventilation member. In a ventilation member 60 shown in Figs. 14A and 14B, a substantially cylindrical body 62 is fitted to the inside of a cover part 61 so as to form a ventilation path between the inner circumference of the cover part 61 and the outer circumference of the substantially cylindrical body 62 and between the bottom surface of the cover part 61 and the bottom portion of the substantially cylindrical body 62. When an opening in the bottomportion of the substantially cylindrical body 62 is covered with a filter 63, the ventilation member 60 can also exert a higher water-proofing property and a higher dust-proofing property (disclosed in Japanese Patent Laid-Open No. 2001-143524). An opening 62a in the top portion of the substantially cylindrical body 62 is outer-fitted to the neck portion 50a of the housing 50 so that the ventilation member 60 is fixed to the housing. Fig. 15 shows another example of a related-art ventilation member. In a ventilation member 70 shown in Fig. 15, a tapered insertion portion 71a is formed in one end portion of a disc-like elastomer member 71, while a splash guard cover 71b is formed on the other end portion of the disc-like elastomer member 71, and a breathable film 72 is fixedly deposited on the way of a ventilation flow path penetrating between the one end portion and the outer circumference of the other end portion. A sealing/fixing portion 71c for fixedly retaining a housing 7 in cooperation with the insertion portion 71a is formed in the outer circumference of the elastomer member 71 (disclosed in Japanese Patent Laid-Open No. 85536/1998). The insertion portion 71a is pressed into the opening portion of the housing so that the ventilation member 70 is fixed to the housing. A ventilation member comprising:  A ventilation member according to Claim 1, wherein said lock structure is of a spiral groove formed in an outer circumference of said insertion portion. A ventilation member according to Claim 1, wherein said lock structure is of at least one protrusion portion formed in an outer circumference of an insertion-start-side end portion of said insertion portion. A ventilation member according to Claim 1, wherein a through hole is formed in said support, and said breathable film is fixedly attached to said supporting portion so as to cover said through hole. A ventilation member according to Claim 1, wherein a plurality of through holes are formed in a surface of said support covered with said breathable film. A ventilation member according to Claim 1, wherein said support includes a seal portion on a surface of said supporting portion facing said housing. A ventilation member according to Claim 1, wherein said support includes a protective portion covering at least a part of said breathable film from above of said breathable film. A ventilation member according to Claim 1, wherein said support has an outer shape selected from a circular shape and a polygonal shape when said support is observed in a gas permeable direction. A ventilation member according to Claim 1, wherein said support has an engagement structure with which a tool can be engaged. A ventilation member according to Claim 9, wherein said engagement structure includes at least one kind selected from a convex portion and a concave portion. A ventilation member according to Claim 9, wherein said engagement structure is formed in at least one surface selected from a surface of said support which can be viewed when said support is observed in a gas permeable direction from outside of said housing, and an outer circumferential surface of said support. A ventilation member according to Claim 1, wherein a reinforcement material is laminated to said breathable film. A ventilation member according to Claim 1, wherein said breathable film is subjected to liquid-repellent treatment. A vented housing comprising a ventilation member according to Claim 1, which is fixed to said opening portion of said housing. <seperator>EP-1246173-A2<id_sep>classG11class subgroupG11B7slash0045subgroup sectionGsection subgroupG11B7slash125subgroup subgroupG11B7slash004subgroup subgroupG11B7slash007subgroup subclassG11Bsubclass subgroupG11B7slash24subgroup groupG11B7slash00group Optical recording medium, optical recording device and optical recording method A laser beam is directed to an optical recording medium such as a DVD-R to successively form thereon marks of a length corresponding to data with a spacing disposed therebetween. A Q value or the amount of reduction in time causes the rise time of laser irradiation to be delayed with respect to the scheduled rise time at least after a spacing equal in length to the mark of the shortest length employed for recording. The Q value satisfies the following equation (1) expressed in terms of the relationship between the recording speed n and an asymmetry. That is,  The present invention relates to an optical recording medium such as a DVD-R, and to a device and method for optical recording information onto the optical recording medium. In a high density optical recording medium such as a DVD-R, laser pulses are directed to the recording layer, made of organic dye or the like, in response to data to be recorded thereon such that marks having a length corresponding to the data are successively formed with a spacing disposed between the marks. To accomplish high density recording on such an optical recording medium, it is necessary to reduce the marks and the spacing disposed therebetween as much as possible. Laser pulses are directed to the recording layer at a predetermined recording speed as mentioned above. The energy of the laser pulses is accumulated in the marks adjacent to each other along the direction of recording and a spacing disposed therebetween, causing thermal interference between a mark and the spacing. For example, to avoid the thermal interference, the conventional DVD-R recording methods (strategies) include dividing laser pulses, directed to a DVD-R to form marks thereon, into a top pulse having a large pulse width and multi-pulses repeated at short time intervals, thereby preventing heat from being accumulated upon completion of irradiation of the laser pulses. In addition to this, the recording strategy is changed because of the following reasons to thereby control the thermal interference. For example, consider two combinations: a combination of a mark, a long spacing, and a mark; another combination of a mark, a short spacing, and a mark. In these cases, recording these combinations by the same recording strategy would cause different amounts of heat to be accumulated in each mark and different recording mark lengths to be produced in the same duration of laser pulse irradiation due to the difference in length of spacings disposed between the recording marks. This would ultimately lead to a difference in total jitter. Here, the total jitter means the jitter of a recording mark/spacing produced along the time axis and normalized with channel clocks. Suppose that a mark has been formed and is followed by a short spacing. In this case, the amount of heat generated during the formation of the mark would affect the mark subsequent to the spacing, resulting in an elongated mark and a shortened spacing. In the case of a DVD-R, such a thermal interference has a serious effect on a combination of a 3T spacing disposed between marks, the spacing having 3T (3 channel bit length) equal in length to the shortest mark of the DVD. For this reason, such a recording strategy has been conventionally employed for recording in which the start of a laser top pulse subsequent to a predetermined short spacing is delayed so as to shorten the length of an emitted pulse than in other cases. The mark subsequent to a 3T spacing or the shortest spacing would be seriously affected by the thermal interference. Therefore, such a laser pulse delay time for shortening the length of the mark and the amount of time reduction Q(ns) after the 3T spacing are effective to prevent total jitter. An optical recording method for successively forming and thereby recording marks with a spacing disposed therebetween by directing a laser beam in response to data at a predetermined recording speed onto a recording layer of an optical recording medium, the marks having a length corresponding to the data to be recorded, the optical recording medium comprising at least the recording layer and an optical reflective layer on an optical transparent substrate, the method comprising the step of:  An optical recording method for successively forming and recording marks with a spacing disposed therebetween by directing a laser beam in response to data at a predetermined recording speed n onto a recording layer of an optical recording medium, the marks having a length corresponding to the data to be recorded, the optical recording medium comprising at least the recording layer and an optical reflective layer on an optical transparent substrate, wherein    an amount of time reduction Q(ns) for delaying a start time of a laser beam irradiation with respect to a scheduled start time to shorten duration of the laser beam irradiation at least after the spacing equal in length to a shortest mark employed for recording, the recording speed n, and an asymmetry satisfy the following equation (1), (0.54×Asymmetryl-1.1)/n≦Q≦(0.54×Asymmetry-0.1)/n where the asymmetry is a ratio of an amplitude of the shortest mark to that of a longest mark of recorded marks and has a value of 0% or greater. An optical recording device for successively forming and recording marks with a spacing disposed therebetween by directing a laser beam in response to data at a predetermined recording speed onto a recording layer of an optical recording medium, the marks having a length corresponding to the data to be recorded, the optical recording medium comprising at least the recording layer and an optical reflective layer on an optical transparent substrate, wherein    an amount of time reduction for delaying a start time of a laser beam irradiation with respect to a scheduled start time to shorten duration of the laser beam irradiation at least after the spacing equal in length to a shortest mark employed for recording is controlled in response to values of a power and the recording speed of the laser beam upon recording. An optical recording device for successively forming and recording marks with a spacing disposed therebetween by directing a laser beam in response to data at a predetermined recording speed n onto a recording layer of an optical recording medium, the marks having a length corresponding to the data to be recorded, the optical recording medium comprising at least the recording layer and an optical reflective layer on an optical transparent substrate, wherein    an amount of time reduction Q(ns) for delaying a start time of a laser beam irradiation with respect to a scheduled start time to shorten duration of the laser beam irradiation at least after the spacing equal in length to a shortest mark employed for recording, the recording speed n, and an asymmetry satisfy the following equation (1), (0.54×Asymmetry-1.1)/n≦Q≦(0.54×Asymmetry-0.1)/n where the asymmetry is a ratio of an amplitude of the shortest mark to that of a longest mark of recorded marks and has a value of 0% or greater. An optical recording medium for successively forming and recording marks thereon with a spacing disposed therebetween by directing a laser beam in response to data at a predetermined recording speed n onto a recording layer of the optical recording medium comprising at least the recording layer made of dye and an optical reflective layer on an optical transparent substrate, the marks having a length corresponding to the data to be recorded, wherein    an amount of time reduction Q(ns) for delaying a start time of a laser beam irradiation with respect to a scheduled start time to shorten duration of the laser beam irradiation at least after the spacing equal in length to a shortest mark employed for recording, the recording speed n, and an asymmetry satisfy the following equation (1), (0.54×Asymmetry-1.1)/n≦Q≦(0.54×Asymmetry-0.1)/n where the asymmetry is a ratio of an amplitude of the shortest mark to that of a longest mark of recorded marks and has a value of 0% or greater. The optical recording medium according to claim 5, wherein    an optical constant k of the dye is 0.01 to 0.1 at a write frequency of the laser beam. An optical recording medium for successively forming and recording marks thereon with a spacing disposed therebetween by directing a laser beam in response to data at a predetermined recording speed n onto a recording layer of the optical recording medium comprising at least the recording layer and an optical reflective layer on an optical transparent substrate, the marks having a length corresponding to the data to be recorded, wherein    information on the optical strategy is pre-recorded on a pre-recorded region, and the optical strategy is the method comprising the step of:  The optical recording medium according to claim 7, wherein    the optical recording medium is provided with a plurality of grooves disposed at a predetermined pitch in a width direction,    a land is disposed between the grooves in parallel to the grooves, and    the pre-recorded region includes at least one of a groove wobbling formed by wobbling the grooves at a predetermined amplitude and space frequency and an isolated pit disposed on top of the land in accordance with a pre-specified rule. An optical recording medium for successively forming and recording marks thereon with a spacing disposed therebetween by directing a laser beam in response to data at a predetermined recording speed n onto a recording layer of the optical recording medium comprising at least the recording layer and an optical reflective layer on an optical transparent substrate, the marks having a length corresponding to the data to be recorded, wherein    information on the optical strategy is pre-recorded on a pre-recorded region, and in the optical strategy, an amount of time reduction Q(ns) for delaying a start time of a laser beam irradiation with respect to a scheduled start time to shorten duration of the laser beam irradiation at least after the spacing equal in length to a shortest mark employed for recording, the recording speed n, and an asymmetry satisfy the following equation (1), (0.54×Asymmetry-1.1)/n≦Q≦(0.54×Asymmetry-0.1)/n where the asymmetry is a ratio of an amplitude of the shortest mark to that of a longest mark of recorded marks and has a value of 0% or greater. The optical recording medium according to claim 9, wherein    the optical recording medium is provided with a plurality of grooves disposed at a predetermined pitch in a width direction,    a land is disposed between the grooves in parallel to the grooves, and    the pre-recorded region includes at least one of a groove wobbling formed by wobbling the grooves at a predetermined amplitude and space frequency and an isolated pit disposed on top of the land in accordance with a pre-specified rule. <seperator>EP-1400776-A1<id_sep>subclassG01Bsubclass sectionGsection classG01class subgroupG01B5slash012subgroup subgroupG01B5slash008subgroup Touch probing device The invention is directed to a touch probing device (2) for inspecting an object which comprises a fixed part (18), a moveable part (20) coupled to the fixed part (18) in such that it allows for a motion of the movable part (20) with respect to the fixed part (18), a measuring means (6) for measuring the motion between the fixed and the movable parts (18,20), and a contact means (36,38) coupled to the movable part (20) for bringing into contact with a surface of the object. The contact means (36,38) is coupled to the movable part (20) via a shock absorber (10). Weight compensating means (8) for compensating the weight of the movable part (2) is provided. The weight compensating means (8) uses a magnetic field for compensating the weight of the movable part (20).  The present invention relates in general to a touch probing device, such as used with coordinate measuring machines, and in particular to a low-force touch probing device. In the last decade the general miniaturization of ever more complex products has lead to an increased importance of high precision machining and assembly. Nowadays, submicrometry accuracy is often required, especially in the field of micro- and opto-electronics, and this trend is also seen in many other fields. This tendency is followed by a demand for ever more powerful geometric inspection equipment. In order to comply with the requested quality standards, the geometric inspection equipment shall be an order of magnitude more accurate than the object to be inspected. A particular role in geometrical inspection is held by coordinate measuring machines (CMM), because of the possibility to measure complex three-dimensional objects. A CMM typically comprises an arm to which a touch probing device is mounted, and which is movable in three dimensions relative to a table on which the object to be inspected is supported. The capabilities of a CMM strongly depend on the proprieties of this touch probing device. The touch probing constitutes the real heart of the CMM. In the last decades a variety of touch probing devices have been developed. Various types of constitutions and sensor technologies have been employed in order to improve probing speed and accuracy, and avoid damages on the touch probing device and on the object to be inspected. A particular construction of a known touch probing device for sensing the position of an object is disclosed in EP 0 102 744 which includes a fixed member and a moveable member bearing a stylus, said moveable member being coupled to the fixed member by means of three motion transmission units. The three units are functionally coupled in parallel and arranged in such as to limit the motion of said moveable member to three translation degrees of freedom (dof). In comparison with three units which are functionally coupled in series, the load exerted onto the units is hereby more uniformly distributed among the three parallel units, the stiffness beyond the permitted translation degrees of freedom is hereby much higher, and it allows hereby for a very compact construction. Flexural elements are used instead of sliding joints or rollers as swiveling connections between the movable and fixed members. The Ecole Polytechnique Fédérale Lausanne and its Laboratoire de Systèmes Robotiques (LSRO) has accomplished profound studies on the improvement of flexural articulations, in particular in the context of parallel kinematics. Examples of these improvements are disclosed in EP 1 013 949 and EP 1 113 191. The latter document discloses a motion transmission apparatus for the transmission of three input-side motion components with one motion dof, respectively, into an output-side motion with three motion dof, or vice versa. Three transmission units, each including one input section and one output section, are functionally coupled to each another in parallel via their output sections. The transmission units are composed of parallelograms with flexural articulations which are designed as thin, circular shaped bend linkages. A touch probing device (2) for inspecting an object, comprising:  A touch probing device (2) for inspecting an object, in particular according to claim 1, comprising a fixed part (18), a moveable part (20) coupled to the fixed part (18) in such that it allows for a motion of the movable part (20) with respect to the fixed part (18), a measuring means (6) for measuring the motion between the fixed and the movable parts (18, 20), a contact means (36, 38) coupled to the movable part (20) for bringing into contact with a surface of the object, and weight compensating means (8) for compensating the weight of the movable part (2),characterized in that the weight compensating means (8) uses a magnetic field for compensating the weight of the movable part (20). The touch probing device (2) according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the movable part (20) has a higher mass, in particular at least two order higher, and a lower stiffness, in particular about two order lower, than the movable part of the shock absorber (10) and the contact means (34, 36). The touch probing device (2) according to anyone of claims 1 to 3, which comprises a parallel kinematics motion transmission assembly (4) coupling the fixed part (18) with the movable part (20) which is designed to offer three translation degrees of freedom. The touch probing device (2) according to claim 4, wherein the motion transmission assembly (4) consists of three separate transmission units (16) coupling the common fixed part (18) with the common movable part (20), which are each designed to offer three translation degrees of freedom and to prevent one rotational degree of freedom. The touch probing device (2) according to claim 5, wherein each transmission unit (16) comprises a measuring means (10). The touch probing device (2) according to claim 5 or 6, wherein each transmission unit (16) comprises flexural links. The touch probing device (2) according to anyone of the foregoing claims, wherein the shock absorber (10) is designed in such that it exhibits a uniform stiffness in all spatial directions. The touch probing device (2) according to anyone of the foregoing claims, wherein the shock absorber (10) is composed of one or more leaf-spring elements (32) which are designed in such that they prevent one rotation degree of freedom and two translation degree of freedom. The touch probing device (2) according to anyone of the foregoing claims, wherein the weight compensating unit (10) comprises a series of permanent magnets (60, 62) arranged in such that they exert a nearly constant magnetic force onto the movable part (20). The touch probing device (2) according to anyone of the foregoing claims, which is part of a coordinate measuring machine. The touch probing device (2) according to anyone of the claims 4 to 11, wherein the motion transmission assembly (4) is designed in such that it exhibits a uniform stiffness in all spatial directions. The touch probing device (2) according to anyone of claims 5 to 12, wherein each transmission unit (16) comprises a weight compensating means (8). The touch probing device (2) according to anyone of the foregoing claims, which comprises a further weight compensating means, which preferably uses tension springs, counter weights and the like. <seperator>EP-1527714-A1<id_sep>subgroupA47C1slash024subgroup subgroupA47C1slash03subgroup classA47class subclassA47Csubclass subgroupA47C1slash022subgroup sectionAsection subgroupA47C7slash54subgroup CHAIR A chair has a backrest and a pair of armrests. A pair of support struts for supporting the backrest is connected to a shaft of a base under a seat. The armrest is supported by an arm post. An operating lever is mounted on the upper front end of the arm post. When the backrest is tilted, it is held at a desired angle by pressing up the operating lever.  The present invention relates to a chair which comprises an operating lever, a cable and a tilting device for locking a seat or a backrest at an optional tilting angle and releasing it. A conventional chair in which a backrest is locked at an optional stepwise angle usually has a tilting device in which a pin which projects on an operating lever rotatably mounted to a seat or an engagement lever related therewith is engaged with or disengaged from teeth formed on the outer circumferential surface of a sector gear which turns together with the backrest. However, in the chair, the operating lever is located on the rear side. Especially when an armrest is provided, it is difficult to operate the operating lever since an arm of a person must be turned outward of the armrest. In a home chair, under a seat, there are provided operating levers for adjusting a tilting angle of the backrest or the seat, height and promoting force. However, it is hard to operate the operating levers while a person sits in the seat. Especially, one has to adjust a tilting angle of the backrest, while the backrest is inclined downward with the person's back. Thus, as the tilting angle becomes larger, the operating lever goes away from the shoulder of the person thereby making the operation harder. In view of the foregoing disadvantages, it is an object of the invention to provide a chair in which a tilting angle of a backrest or a seat can be easily adjusted while a person sits in the seat without the positional relationship between the person and the operating lever being significantly changed even if the person is inclined together with the backrest of the chair. According to the present invention, there is provided a chair comprising: The operating lever is provided on the support arm for supporting the front end of an arm pad. Thus, the armrests are disposed near the operating lever, which can be operated while a person sits down at easy posture thereby improving its operating capability. Even when the present invention is applied to a chair in which height and horizontal position of the armrest are adjustable, the operating lever is moved together with the armrests to prevent decrease in operating capability. Furthermore, when a cable is connected to the operating lever, the operating lever provided on the support arm can omit necessity of bending the cable at a sharp angle thereby making the cable pushed or pulled easily.  Fig. 1 is a front elevational view of a chair according to the present invention, and Fig. 2 is a side elevational view of the same. The chair has a leg 3 having five feet 2 radially. A telescopic column 4 which has a gas spring (not shown) stands on the center of the leg 3, and the rear end of a base 5 is fixed to the upper end of the column 4. The base 4 opens at the bottom and is formed as a hollow box, and the bottom is covered with a detachable cover 6. A chair comprising:  A chair as claimed in claim 1 wherein the operating lever is connected to the locking means via a flexible cable. A chair as claimed in claim 1 wherein the operating lever is pivotally mounted to the support arm and moved upward so as to pull up the cable. A chair as claimed in claim 3 wherein the operating arm comprises a lever body having a recess in which a finger of a sitting person is engaged; and a pair of support portions having a short shaft which is engaged in a groove of the support arm. A chair as claimed in claim 2 wherein a hollow arm pad support member in the arm post is provided to move up and down in the arm post to change height of the armrest, said cable being formed as a loop in the arm post. A chair as claimed in claim 5 wherein the support member is provided in a armrest support rod in a hollow cylindrical height adjusting member which has a plurality of engagement portions therein, a pin projecting from the support member to engage on one of said plurality of engagement portions of the height adjusting member to change height of the armrest. A chair as claimed in claim 4 wherein a wire holder projects from a rear end of the operating lever and is engaged with an end of the cable, the end of the cable which extends via the wire holder being fixed to the armrest. A chair as claimed in claim 7 wherein a recess is formed on an outer surface of the rear end of the wire holder so that the cable may be in sliding contact on the wire holder. A chair as claimed in claimed in claim 2 wherein a lower end of the cable is taken out of an exit of a connecting rod of the arm post, the exit being covered with a bottom cover. A chair as claimed in claim 9 wherein a recess is formed under the bottom cover so that the the cable may be placed in the recess. A chair as claimed in claim 9 wherein the bottom cover is fixed by engagement and by a screw to the connecting rod. A chair as claimed in claim 2 wherein the tilting means comprises force promoting return means which comprises a force promoting unit comprising a core which rotates with the shaft, elastic material around the core and an outer tube around the elastic material. A chair as claimed in claim 12 wherein the locking means comprises a sector gear mounted to the shaft to rotate together with the core, and an engagement member connected to the operating lever via the cable and engagable with teeth of the sector gear thereby holding the backrest at an optional stepwise angle and releasing it. <seperator>EP-1405662-A2<id_sep>subclassB08Bsubclass sectionBsection groupF25J1slash00group subclassB01Dsubclass classF25class groupC01B31slash00group classB01class groupB08B7slash00group classC01class sectionFsection groupB01D11slash00group classB08class sectionCsection subclassF25Jsubclass subgroupB01D53slash04subgroup subgroupB01D53slash26subgroup subclassC01Bsubclass subgroupC01B31slash20subgroup CO2 recovery process for supercritical extraction A carbon dioxide recovery apparatus (1) and process for supercritical extraction includes providing a process stream (61) from a supercritical extraction procedure (60) in which the process stream (61) includes pressurized carbon dioxide, extraction process waste and optionally at least one co-solvent; reducing the pressure of the process stream below critical pressure; venting low pressure carbon dioxide vapor (66) to exhaust; cooling the process stream to form a two phase mixture; separating the two phase mixture into a process liquid (71), containing co-solvent if present, and a process vapor phase stream (72); collecting the process liquid; filtering the process vapor phase stream (72) to remove particulates and optionally residual co-solvent; passing the filtered process vapor stream (81) through an adsorber (85) to remove trace impurities to form a purified carbon dioxide vapor stream (90); and, drying the purified carbon dioxide vapor stream (90) to remove residual water vapor.  The present invention relates to a process and apparatus for recovering carbon dioxide used for supercritical extraction in an industrial process, such as semiconductor wafer cleaning. Supercritical mixtures of high purity CO For a large-scale chemical production system, the amounts of CO Previous processes for recovery of carbon dioxide for reuse in industrial processes such as semiconductor wafer manufacturing require the use of accessory equipment such as boilers and condensers for distilling and condensing the solvent waste stream, together with significant energy requirements. U.S.-A-4,349,415 discloses a process for separating organic liquid solutes from their solvent mixtures, wherein the extractant can be carbon dioxide used in the supercritical state. A carbon dioxide recovery process for supercritical extraction is provided comprising: The process may further comprise optionally supplementing the dried, purified carbon dioxide vapor stream with a distilled carbon dioxide vapor stream to form a feed carbon dioxide vapor stream; filtering the feed carbon dioxide vapor stream to remove condensable vapors and particulates; and cooling the filtered feed carbon dioxide stream to form an intermediate carbon dioxide liquid stream. The process may still further comprise filtering the intermediate carbon dioxide liquid stream; and pressurizing the intermediate carbon dioxide liquid stream. A supercritical fluid may be formed from the pressurized carbon dioxide liquid stream and delivered to the extraction procedure. In one embodiment, wherein the adsorber is a plurality of adsorber beds, the process may further comprise isolating at least one adsorber bed and flushing the isolated adsorber bed with vaporized refrigerant from at least one condenser. In another embodiment, a process for carbon dioxide supercritical extraction and recovery is provided comprising: An apparatus is provided for the recovery of carbon dioxide from a supercritical extraction process producing a process stream containing pressurized liquid carbon dioxide, extraction process waste and optionally at least one co-solvent, comprising means for reducing the pressure of the liquid carbon dioxide; and a vent for passing low pressure carbon dioxide vapor resulting from the pressure reduction to exhaust; further comprising: In certain embodiments, the separator is a second condenser for cooling the process stream to form the two phases. In certain embodiments, the adsorber is a plurality of adsorber beds. In certain embodiments, at least one condenser includes an external refrigeration circuit having a heat exchanger to condense the purified carbon dioxide vapor feed stream through indirect heat exchange with a refrigerant stream. In certain of those embodiments, a conduit is provided between the refrigeration circuit and the adsorber to permit used refrigerant to flush out at least one adsorber bed when isolated from the apparatus. In another embodiment, an apparatus is provided for the supply and recovery of carbon dioxide for a supercritical extraction process comprising: The process and apparatus according to the invention will now be described by way of example with reference to the accompanying drawing, in which: Figure 1 is a schematic view of an apparatus for carrying out a supercritical extraction and recovery process. Although the apparatus and process described below with reference to Figure 1 are applicable to many processes for making industrial products which must be cleaned during or after production, for convenience the apparatus and process will be exemplified with respect to their use in connection with semiconductor wafer processing. The semiconductor wafers are cleaned with supercritical carbon dioxide (SCCO A carbon dioxide recovery process for supercritical extraction comprising:  A process according to claim 1 further comprising:  A process according to claim 2 further comprising:  A process according to claim 3, wherein the intermediate carbon dioxide liquid stream is raised to a supercritical pressure and delivered to the extraction procedure. A process according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the adsorber comprises a plurality of adsorber beds, further comprising isolating at least one adsorber bed and flushing the isolated adsorber bed with vaporized refrigerant from at least one condenser employed in the process. A process for carbon dioxide supercritical extraction and recovery comprising: An apparatus for the recovery of carbon dioxide from a supercritical extraction process producing a process stream comprising pressurized carbon dioxide, extraction process waste and optionally at least one co-solvent, comprising means (62, 63, 64) for reducing the pressure of the carbon dioxide; and a vent (66) for passing low pressure carbon dioxide vapor resulting from the pressure reduction to exhaust; further comprising:  An apparatus according to claim 7 wherein the separator is a second condenser (70) for cooling the process stream to form the two phases. An apparatus according to claim 7 or claim 8, wherein the adsorber (85) comprises a plurality of adsorber beds (82, 83). An apparatus according to any one of claims 7 to 9, wherein at least one condenser (18) includes an external refrigeration circuit having a heat exchanger (21) to condense the purified carbon dioxide vapor feed stream through indirect heat exchange with a refrigerant stream. An apparatus according to claim 10, wherein a conduit is provided between the refrigeration circuit and the adsorber to permit used refrigerant to flush out at least one adsorber bed when isolated from the apparatus. An apparatus for the supply and recovery of carbon dioxide for a supercritical extraction process comprising: An apparatus according to claim 12 wherein the separator is a second condenser (76) for cooling the process stream to form the two phases. An apparatus according to claim 12 or claim 13, wherein at least one condenser (18) includes an external refrigeration circuit having a heat exchanger (21) to condense the vapor feed stream through indirect heat exchange with a refrigerant stream. An apparatus according to claim 14, wherein a conduit is provided between the refrigeration circuit and the adsorber to permit used refrigerant to flush out at least one adsorber bed when isolated from the apparatus. <seperator>EP-1302353-A2<id_sep>subgroupB60W10slash02subgroup sectionBsection subgroupB60W10slash06subgroup subclassF02Dsubclass classF02class subgroupF02D29slash02subgroup subgroupB60K6slash20subgroup subgroupB60K6slash547subgroup subclassB60Wsubclass classB60class subgroupB60L11slash14subgroup subgroupB60W10slash04subgroup subclassF16Hsubclass subgroupB60W10slash10subgroup subgroupF16H61slash02subgroup groupB60K6slash00group subclassB60Lsubclass groupF02D29slash00group groupB60W20slash00group subgroupB60W10slash08subgroup groupB60W10slash00group subclassB60Ksubclass sectionFsection classF16class subgroupB60W10slash26subgroup subgroupB60K6slash48subgroup Control device and control method for hybrid vehicle A control device and control method for a hybrid vehicle is disclosed having an electric storage detecting section 13 which detects a state of charge (SOC) of an electric storage device 10. A target running efficiency calculating section 14 serves as a unit to calculate a target value of a running efficiency, indicative of a proportion of a given physical quantity, in terms of a drive power rate required for driving the vehicle such that the higher the SOC detected value, the smaller will be the target value. A target unit operating point calculating section 15 calculates a target value of a unit operating point, providing the target running efficiency, from among operating points, that cause a power rate of an internal combustion engine 1 to be utilized at the running efficiency with the maximum efficiency, of a unit 11 (the internal combustion engine 1, a clutch 2, a motor 3 and a stepped power transmission 4), and a target unit operating point actualizing section 16 operates the unit 11 at the target unit operating point.  The present invention relates to a control device and control method for a hybrid vehicle propelled with at least one of drive power outputs of an internal combustion engine and a motor via a stepped power transmission. An example of a related art hybrid vehicle is disclosed in US Patent Application Publication Laid-open No. 2002-0062183A1. With such a related art structure, the hybrid vehicle includes an internal combustion engine, a motor, an electric storage device and a power transmission to form a so-called hybrid vehicle in which at least one of drive power outputs of the internal combustion engine and the motor is transmitted via the power transmission to an output shaft thereof. In such a hybrid vehicle, a running mode and an operating point of a unit (the internal combustion engine, the motor and the power transmission) are determined such that the running efficiency (indicative of a proportion of a fuel flow rate, in terms of a drive power rate required for driving the vehicle, required for providing such power rate) is equal to a target value. In such a concept, a target running efficiency is determined such that the higher the SOC value indicative of a remaining charged state of the electric storage device, the higher will be the target running efficiency. This results in a condition where the unit operating point is controlled such that as the SOC value remains at a high level, the electric storage device is charged only at the high running efficiency whereas when the SOC value remains at the low level, charging of the electric storage device is effectuated even at the low running efficiency. For this reason, it is possible to execute a control so as to permit the SOC value to be varied within an available range and to properly provide a given physical value, such as an exhaust gas flow rate and fuel consumption rate, related to the internal combustion engine. In the related art practice set forth above, operating points of the internal combustion engine to be used during a travel of the vehicle are compared between a case in which the power transmission includes an infinitely variable power transmission, such as a CVT, and a case in which the power transmission includes a stepped power transmission. An example of a structure, which employs the infinitely variable power transmission, is shown in Fig. 1 in which a hybrid vehicle is structured with an internal combustion engine 21, a clutch 22, a motor 23, the infinitely variable power transmission 24, a gear reduction unit 25, a gear differential 26 and drive wheels 27. With such a vehicle, the presence of the infinitely variable power transmission 24 located for transmitting a drive power output of either one of the internal combustion engine 21 and the motor 23 or drive power outputs of both the engine and the motor to the drive wheels 27 enables an operating point of the internal combustion engine during running of the vehicle to be freely selected from an operating point tracing an equivalent power rate line that satisfies a drive power rate. Such a hybrid vehicle takes an advantage of the freedom of selecting the operating point while an attempt is made to control the operating point of the internal combustion engine to trace an α line for thereby providing an improved fuel consumption. A control device (12) for a hybrid vehicle, including a unit (11) having an internal combustion engine (1), a motor (3), a stepped power transmission (4) and an electric storage device (10) adapted to supply electric power output to the motor, wherein at least one of power outputs of the internal combustion engine and the motor is transmitted through the stepped power transmission to an output shaft thereof, the control device comprising:  The control device for the hybrid vehicle according to claim 1, wherein the running efficiency is a proportion of the amount of fuel, in terms of the drive power rate required for driving the vehicle, to be consumed for producing the drive power rate. The control device for the hybrid vehicle according to claim 1, wherein the running efficiency is a proportion of a mass of ingredients, in terms of the drive power rate required for driving the vehicle, which are exhausted from the engine in order to provide the drive power rate while the ingredients are limited from being exhausted. The control device for the hybrid vehicle according to any of claims 1 to 3, further comprising:  The control device for the hybrid vehicle according to any of claims 1 to 4, wherein the target unit operating point calculating section (15) serves as a unit to calculate the target value of the unit operating point so as to interrupt a gear shift for a given time interval in the absence of variation in a demanded drive power, The control device for the hybrid vehicle according to claim 5, wherein the target unit operating point calculating section (15) comprises:  The control device for the hybrid vehicle according to any of claims 1 to 6, wherein the target unit operating point calculating section (15) serves as a unit wherein when there is the absence of a transition in a gear shift stage from a low speed gear ratio to a high speed gear ratio or from the high speed gear ratio to the low speed gear ratio in a sequence when it is assumed that the unit is operated using the calculated target unit operating point, the target unit operating point used in a previous calculation is assigned to the target value of the unit operating point. A control method for a hybrid vehicle, including a unit (11) having an internal combustion engine (1), a motor (3), a stepped power transmission (4) and an electric storage device (10) adapted to supply electric power output to the motor, wherein at least one of power outputs of the internal combustion engine and the motor is transmitted through the stepped power transmission to an output shaft thereof, the control method comprising:  <seperator>EP-1783501-A2<id_sep>subgroupG01R27slash26subgroup sectionGsection subclassG01Rsubclass classG01class Systems and methods for inspecting electrical conductivity in composite materials Systems (10) and methods for inspecting electrical conductivity in composite materials having conductive structures are disclosed. In one embodiment, a system of inspecting electrical conductivity in a conductive bonding region (18) includes a coil (14) coupled to an alternating current source (12) that is configured to induce a current in a conductive structure within the region. A processor (30) is coupled to the coil that is operable to detect an impedance property value from the coil that results from the current induced in the conductive structure.  FIELD OF THE INVENTION This invention relates generally to systems and methods for inspecting composite materials having a conductive structure, and more specifically, to systems and methods for inspecting a conductive bonding region that couples adjoining composite materials. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Recent estimations indicate that, on the average, each airplane in the U.S. commercial aircraft fleet receives a lightning discharge about once each year. The airplane generally experiences the lightning discharge when flying through a heavily charged portion of a cloud. In such cases, the discharge generally originates at the airplane and extends outwardly from the aircraft. While the discharge is occurring, it generally moves from the nose of the airplane and onto a plurality of skin panel portions of the airplane as it moves through the charged region. The discharge may also attach to wing tips and/or edges of wing control surfaces (e.g., ailerons) during the discharge. The discharge then generally leaves the aircraft structure through the empennage. Since commercial airplanes contain relatively large amounts of potentially-explosive fuel, and also generally include sensitive electronic equipment such as navigational computers and communications equipment that may be easily damaged by a lightning discharge, commercial airplanes are required to comply with a comprehensive set of certification procedures in order to verify that the airplane is sufficiently protected from the damaging effects of a lightning discharge. Presently, the outer skin panels in commercial airplanes are formed from an aluminum alloy, which is an excellent electrical conductor. Accordingly, by providing suitable electrical interconnections between the outer skin panels, and between other exposed portions of the aircraft structure, the current associated with the discharge is safely communicated along the skin panels and/or other structural portions as the airplane moves through the charged region. Increasingly, however, structural portions (including skin panel portions) of commercial airplanes are formed from fiber-reinforced composite materials, which are relatively poor electrical conductors. Consequently, additional conductive materials are generally incorporated into the fiber-reinforced composite materials so that adequate lightning discharge protection is achieved. In particular, skin panels fabricated from fiber-reinforced composite materials generally include a conductive material, such as a conductive mesh, or other similar conductive structures that may be applied to surfaces of the skin panels so that the lightning current is safely communicated through the skin panels. Alternately, the conductive mesh or conductive structure may be incorporated into one or more of the layers of the skin panels. Although the foregoing fiber-reinforced composite panels are generally sufficiently conductive, electrical conductivity must also be maintained between each of the panels in order to provide adequate lightning protection to the airplane. Accordingly, in one known method, respective edges of abutting skin panels are sanded or etched to expose edges of the conductive mesh provided in the panels. A suitably-sized and pre-assembled surface member having a conductive mesh may then is positioned on the sanded or etched portions of the abutting panels and bonded to the panels to provide electrical continuity between the abutting panels. Similarly, fiber-reinforced composite skin panels may also require a localized repair to remove a portion of the panel that has been physically damaged. The localized repair includes removing the damaged portion of the panel, and fabricating a patch that covers the removed portion. Since electrical continuity between the patch and the surrounding skin panel must be established, edge portions of the panel and the patch must be suitably prepared, which generally includes sanding or etching the edge portions, and bonding the patch to the skin panel, as described above. A system of inspecting electrical conductivity in a conductive bonding region, comprising:  The system of claim 1, wherein the alternating current source further comprises a source that is operable to excite the coil at a frequency that ranges between approximately about 50 Hertz (Hz) and approximately about 10 megahertz (MHz). The system of claim 1, wherein the alternating current source further comprises a source that is operable to sequentially excite the coil at more than a single frequency. The system of claim 3, wherein the alternating current source further comprises a source that is operable to generate a selected pair of frequencies, further wherein the selected pair of frequencies have a frequency ratio that ranges between approximately about 2:1 and approximately about 4:1. The system of claim 1, wherein the coil further comprises a diameter, and the electrical bonding region further comprises a width, further wherein the diameter is at least approximately equal to the width. The system of claim 1, wherein the detected impedance property value comprises at least one of a resistance, a reactance, a phasor magnitude and a phase angle. The system of claim 1, wherein the coil further comprises a conformable base portion that is configured to be interposed between the coil and the conductive bonding region. The system of claim 1, wherein the electrical bonding region further comprises a first composite portion having a first conductive layer, a second composite portion adjacent to the first composite layer and having a second conductive layer, and an intermediate conductive layer that forms an electrically conductive path extending between the first conductive layer and the second conductive layer. The system of claim 8, wherein the first conductive layer, the second conductive layer and the intermediate conductive layer are comprised of at least one of a metallic woven mesh, a metallic foil, a flame sprayed metallic coating, a fabric that is coated with a metallic coating, and a metallic decal. A method of inspecting a conductive structure in a composite bonding region, comprising:  The method of claim 10, wherein positioning an apparatus operable to induce a current into the conductive structure further comprises:  The method of claim 10, wherein energizing the apparatus further comprises providing an alternating current to the apparatus at a frequency that ranges between approximately about 50 Hertz (Hz) and approximately about 10 megahertz (MHz). The method of claim 10, wherein the apparatus further comprises a processor, and further wherein detecting an impedance property value comprises processing the value to generate at least one of a resistance, a reactance, a phasor magnitude and a phase angle. The method of claim 10, wherein detecting an impedance property value of the apparatus further comprises detecting the impedance property value using at least one of a coil positioned on the bonding region, and an auxiliary coil that is spaced apart from the coil positioned on the bonding region. A handheld apparatus for inspecting electrical conductivity in a conductive bonding region, comprising:  The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the coil further comprises a coil that is selectively demountable from the housing. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the outer housing further comprises an audio annunciator that is coupled to the processor and operable to emit an audio tone corresponding to the impedance property value. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the outer housing further comprises a visual display that is coupled to the processor and operable to display the impedance property value. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the outer housing further comprises a first indicator light and a second indicator light coupled to the processor that are operable to illuminate when the impedance property value is within a selected range of values. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the outer housing further includes a communications port coupled to the processor and operable to communicate the impedance property value to an external processor. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the outer housing further comprises a connection port that is configured to be coupled to an auxiliary coil. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the outer housing further comprises at least one of a signal amplitude level adjustment control that is operable to adjustably set an amplitude of the impedance property value, a phase adjustment control that is operable to set a phase of the impedance property value, and an alarm threshold control that is operable to set an alarm threshold value. <seperator>EP-1437820-A1<id_sep>sectionHsection groupH01R39slash00group classH01class subclassH01Rsubclass classH02class subgroupH02K5slash14subgroup subclassH02Ksubclass subgroupH01R39slash40subgroup Brush holder An electrical brush holder comprising a brush slideable in a brush box (16, 18) in the brush holder (12, 14), first spring means (26, 34, 28, 36) mounted on the brush holder to bias the brush against an electrical contact surface (37) and brush retention means (38, 40) are mounted on the brush holder (12, 14) in a position to neutralise the biasing effect of the first spring means (26, 34, 28, 36) to keep the brush at least partially retracted within the brush box and to be contactable by the electrical contact surface (37) as it is inserted into the brush holder; to thereby be removed from said neutralising position to free the brush (20, 22) to be biased against the electric contact surface; in a preferred embodiment a torsion spring (26, 28) is mounted on the brush holder (12, 14) and has a first, spring-loading arm (34, 36) arranged to bear against the brush top face (17) and a second, spring-retaining arm (38, 40) arranged to bear against the brush contact face (23).  Field of the Invention This invention relates to electrical brush holders for use with electrical commutators, current collectors, slip rings and the like electrical contact surfaces of electric machines (hereinafter referred to as "an electrical contact surface"). Background of the Invention During the manufacture of electric machines such as electric motors or other electrical device using brushes, the electrical contact surface must be inserted into a brush holder to make contact with the brushes. Because the brushes are spring-biased toward the electrical contact surface, something must retain the brushes in the brush holder to allow for the insertion of the electrical contact surface into the brush assembly. A separate disposable or reusable brush retention device is used by the prior art to retain the brushes. For example, in one prior art method, a tube is placed in between the brushes to retain them, then is displaced as the electrical contact surface is inserted. This use of such a tube prevents the insertion of the electrical contact surface into a "blind" hole, e.g. into a closed end brush holder, because the displaced tube must be removed. Alternatively, pins or clips are used to retain the brushes until the electrical contact surface is installed. After installation, the pins or clips must be removed. These methods of manufacture add extra steps, add extra devices to the manufacture of electric machines and do not neutralise the effect of brush biasing springs. Prior Art Document-B1-US 6,340,856 discloses an electric motor wherein a magnet body, having a conical first annular portion 261, causes the carbon brushes 22 to spread apart, so that an additional assembly tool can be dispensed with. Once the commutator motor has been mounted in final form, the magnet body 24 is located directly between the commutator 21 and the spherical bearing 14 (see column 3 lines 36 to 42). The brushes are not retained apart prior to insertion of the magnet body. Object of the Invention It is an object of the present invention to overcome the above-stated problems by providing an electrical brush holder wherein the or each brush can be retained in the holder prior to insertion of a electrical contact surface without the need for additional steps or devices which have to be removed post assembly. Statement of Invention According to the present invention, an electrical brush holder comprises a brush slideable in a brush box in the brush holder, first spring means mounted on the brush holder to bias the brush against an electrical contact surface and brush retention means mounted on the brush holder in a position to neutralise the biasing effect of the first spring means and to keep the brush at least partially retracted within the brush box and to be contactable by the electrical contact surface as it is inserted into the brush holder; to thereby be removed from said neutralising position to free the brush to be biased against the electric contact surface. The present invention addresses the problems of the previous brush holders by providing a mechanism that retains the brush out of the way during installation of the sliding electrical contact surface; the retaining mechanism remaining on the brush holder. The sliding electrical contact assembly is typically a commutator or slip ring assembly. The present invention allows the commutator or slip ring assembly to be installed blindly and with no additional manufacturing steps associated with retaining the brushes prior to insertion of the commutator or slip ring assembly. An electrical brush holder comprising a brush slideable in a brush box (16, 18) in the brush holder (12, 14), first spring means (26, 34, 28, 36) mounted on the brush holder to bias the brush against an electrical contact surface (37) and brush retention means (38, 40) to keep the brush at least partially retracted within the brush box characterised in that the brush retention means (38, 40) are mounted on the brush holder (12, 14) in a position to neutralise the biasing effect of the first spring means (26, 34, 28, 36) and to be contactable by the electrical contact surface (37) as it is inserted into the brush holder; to thereby be removed from said neutralising position to free the brush (20, 22) to be biased against the electric contact surface. A holder as claimed in claim 1 and further characterised in that the brush retention means comprise second spring means (26, 38, 28, 40) mounted on the brush holder (12, 14) so as, in use, to counteract the bias of the first spring means (26, 34, 28, 36). A holder as claimed in claim 2 and further characterised in that the first and second spring means are a torsion spring (26, 28) mounted on the brush holder (12, 14) and having a first, spring-loading arm (34, 36) arranged to bear against the brush top face (17) and a second, spring-retaining arm (38, 40) arranged to bear against the brush contact face (23). A holder as claimed in claim 3 and further characterised in that the torsion spring (26, 28) is pivotally mounted on the brush assembly (12, 14) and one or more stops (42, 44, 46, 48) are provided to prevent over-rotation of the torsion spring. A holder as claimed in any of claims 1 to 4 and further characterised in that the brush holder (12, 14) has a camming surface (27, 29) located in the path of the brush retention means (38, 40); whereby, as the electrical contact surface (37) is inserted into the brush holder, the brush retention means is forced against the camming surface and removed from said neutralising position. A holder as claimed in claim 5 and further characterised in that the camming surface terminates in a latching slot (50, 52); whereby, as the electrical contact surface (37) is further inserted into the brush holder (12, 14), the brush retention means is carried beyond the camming surface (27 29) to be retained in the latching slot away from the brush (20, 22) and electrical contact surface. A brush assembly including a pair of brush holders (12, 14) as claimed in any of claims 1 to 6. An assembly as claimed in claim 7 and further characterised in that the brush assembly (10) is mounted on or forms part of the end cap (11) of an electric machine. <seperator>EP-1364762-A1<id_sep>sectionHsection sectionBsection classH01class subclassH01Lsubclass subclassH05Ksubclass classB29class groupH05K3slash00group subgroupB29C33slash56subgroup subgroupH05K3slash46subgroup subgroupB29C33slash68subgroup subgroupH01L23slash12subgroup classH05class groupB32B27slash00group subgroupB29C43slash20subgroup subgroupB32B27slash08subgroup subgroupB32B7slash02subgroup subgroupB32B27slash30subgroup subclassB32Bsubclass subclassB29Csubclass classB32class Use of a release film A release film having a three-layer structure consisting of a layer A, a layer B and a layer C laminated in this order, wherein the layer A comprises a fluororesin having a melting point higher than the press molding temperature of a product to be molded, the layer B comprises a thermoplastic resin having a melting point of from 70 to 100°C, and the layer C comprises a fluororesin or a non-fluororesin having a melting point higher than the above press molding temperature. The present invention relates to a release film used for production of printed wiring boards and semiconductor packages. In recent years, the density of printed wiring boards became high. Accordingly, multi-layer printed wiring boards having a graduated convexo-concave shape to have a surface mount device such as a semiconductor package on board are employed. In a case where multi-layer printed wiring boards having a graduated cavity part are laminated and molded, it is not easy to uniformly press a product to be molded by a conventional molding method. JP-A-10-296765 discloses a release film consisting of three layers, wherein a thermoplastic resin for the interlayer becomes in a molten state at the time of molding to improve tight contact to the product to be molded, whereby discharge of an adhesive prepreg from the product to be molded will be prevented. However, with the release film, the product to be molded can not adequately be pressed uniformly, since the fluidity of the thermoplastic resin is too high. JP-A-2001-138338 discloses a release film comprising a support film having a melting point of at least 110°C and an elastic modulus in tension of from 980 to 6,860 N/mm Accordingly, it has been desired to develop a release film for multi-layer printed wiring boards, with which a product to be molded can uniformly be pressed, and discharge of an adhesive prepreg from the product to be molded can be prevented. Under these circumstances, it is an object of the present invention to provide a release film which is excellent in release properties, and with which discharge of an adhesive prepreg from a product to be molded can be prevented, the product to be molded can be pressed highly uniformly, and the molded product is excellent in surface smoothness. The present invention provides a release film having a three-layer structure consisting of a layer A, a layer B and a layer C laminated in this order, wherein the layer A comprises a fluororesin having a melting point higher than the press molding temperature of a product to be molded, the layer B comprises a thermoplastic resin having a melting point of from 70 to 100°C, and the layer C comprises a fluororesin or a non-fluororesin having a melting point higher than the above press molding temperature. The present invention further provides a method for producing a printed wiring board and a semiconductor package, which employs the above release film. In the accompanying drawings: Now, the present invention will be described in detail with reference to the preferred embodiments. As illustrated in Fig. 1, the release film 4 of the present invention has a three-layer structure consisting of a layer A 1, a layer B 2 and a layer C 3 laminated in this order. Of the release film of the present invention, the layer A comprises a fluororesin having a melting point higher than the press molding temperature of a product to be molded. Further, of the release film of the present invention, the layer C comprises a fluororesin or a non-fluororesin having a melting point higher than the above press molding temperature. A release film having a three-layer structure consisting of a layer A, a layer B and a layer C laminated in this order, wherein the layer A comprises a fluororesin having a melting point higher than the press molding temperature of a product to be molded, the layer B comprises a thermoplastic resin having a melting point of from 70 to 100°C, and the layer C comprises a fluororesin or a non-fluororesin having a melting point higher than the above press molding temperature. The release film according to Claim 1, wherein the fluororesin for the layer A and/or the layer C is a copolymer of tetrafluoroethylene with a comonomer. The release film according to Claim 1 or 2, wherein the fluororesin for the layer A and/or the layer C is a tetrafluoroethylene/ethylene copolymer, a tetrafluoroethylene/perfluoro(alkyl vinyl ether) copolymer or a tetrafluoroethylene/hexafluoropropylene copolymer. The release film according to Claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein the thermoplastic resin for the layer B is at least one member selected from the group consisting of an ethylene/vinyl acetate copolymer, an ethylene/acrylic acid copolymer, an ethylene/ethyl acrylate copolymer, an ethylene/methyl acrylate copolymer, an ethylene/methacrylic acid copolymer, an ethylene/methyl methacrylate copolymer and an ionomer resin. The release film according to any one of Claims 1 to 4, wherein the thickness of the layer A is from 3 to 100 µm, the thickness of the layer B is from 5 to 200 µm, and the thickness of the layer C is from 3 to 100 µm. The release film according to any one of Claims 1 to 5, which is laminated by coextrusion, extrusion laminating, dry laminating or thermolaminating. A method for producing a printed wiring board, which employs the release film as defined in any one of Claims 1 to 6. A method for producing a semiconductor package, which employs the release film as defined in any one of Claims 1 to 6. <seperator>EP-1542237-A1<id_sep>subgroupG11C11slash406subgroup sectionGsection subgroupG11C29slash02subgroup groupG11C7slash00group subclassG11Csubclass classG11class SEMICONDUCTOR MEMORY A refresh signal is output in response to a refresh request generated at predetermined cycles, and a refresh operation is performed. The refresh operation ends when a conflict occurs between an access request and the refresh request. Consequently, an access operation corresponding to the access request can be started earlier with a reduction in access time. The access time can be reduced further by changing the end time of the refresh operation in accordance with the timing of supply of the access request. Since a test circuit for notifying the state of the refresh operation to exterior is formed, the operation margin of the refresh operation can be evaluated in a short time. As a result, it is possible to reduce the development period of the semiconductor memory.   The present invention relates to a semiconductor memory which requires periodic refresh operations to retain data written in its memory cells. In particular, the present invention relates to a semiconductor memory which performs refresh operations automatically inside without requiring a refresh command from exterior. In addition, the present invention relates to a technology for testing the foregoing semiconductor memory.  In recent years, mobile apparatuses such as a cellular phone have become more sophisticated in service facilities, and the amounts of data to be handled have been growing steadily. Higher capacities are then required of the work memories to be mounted on the mobile apparatuses accordingly. Conventionally, the work memories of the mobile apparatuses have used SRAMs which allow easier system configuration. The SRAMs are, however, greater than DRAMs in the number of devices for constituting each single bit of cell, and thus are disadvantageous for higher capacities. In view of this, semiconductor memories that have DRAM memory cells and operate as SRAMs by performing refresh operations on the memory cells automatically inside have been developed. In the semiconductor memories of this type, the refresh operation time for performing a single refresh operation is included in the read cycle time or write cycle time. Specifically, the first half of a cycle time is allocated for the refresh operation time. The actual read operation or write operation is performed in the second half of the cycle time. Thus, the systems (users) on which the semiconductor memories are mounted need not be aware of the refresh operations in the semiconductor memories. That is, the users can use these semiconductor memories as SRAMs. Besides, in the semiconductor memories of this type, the refresh operation time is rendered shorter than the read operation time for the sake of reducing the cycle time. Specifically, the time for selecting word lines in a refresh operation is shorter than the time for selecting word lines in a read operation (for example, see Japanese Examined Patent Application Publication No. 7-58589 (pp. 2-3, Fig. 4)). In the semiconductor memory disclosed in the foregoing publication, a refresh operation is performed before a read operation when a refresh request occurs immediately before the read operation. The refresh operation time is set to be shorter than the read operation time. The refresh operation time, however, can only be made slightly shorter than the read operation time in order to rewrite predetermined signal quantities of data to the memory cells. As described above, an actual read operation is performed in the second half of the read cycle time. Consequently, it is impossible to reduce the access time sufficiently. Incidentally, Fig. 4 of the foregoing publication does not show that refresh operations RF are performed before and after a read operation (read data D). What is shown in Fig. 4 is a simplified example where the refresh operation RF is performed before or after the read operation in accordance with the timing of occurrence of the refresh request (lines 1-10 in column 5 of the foregoing publication). A semiconductor memory comprising:  The semiconductor memory according to claim 1, comprising:  The semiconductor memory according to claim 1, wherein    an execution time of said first refresh operation is shorter than an execution time of said second refresh operation. The semiconductor memory according to claim 3, wherein    the execution time of said first refresh operation is a time in which data to be rewritten to said memory cells by said first refresh operation is amplified to a signal quantity capable of being retained without loss until said second refresh operation is performed. The semiconductor memory according to claim 1, wherein:  The semiconductor memory according to claim 1, wherein    said refresh control circuit masks the output of said first refresh signal and outputs said second refresh signal alone when no conflict occurs between said access request and said refresh request. The semiconductor memory according to claim 1, wherein    a sum of the execution times of said first and second refresh operations and the execution time twice that of said access operation is smaller than twice a minimum interval of supply of said access request, or an external access cycle time. The semiconductor memory according to claim 1, wherein    the execution time of said second refresh operation is the same as an execution time of said access operation. The semiconductor memory according to claim 1, wherein    the execution time of said second refresh operation is shorter than the execution time of said access operation. The semiconductor memory according to claim 1, comprising:  The semiconductor memory according to claim 10, wherein:  A semiconductor memory comprising:  The semiconductor memory according to claim 12, comprising    an external terminal outputting said detecting signal to exterior of the semiconductor memory. The semiconductor memory according to claim 13, comprising:  The semiconductor memory according to claim 12, comprising    a refresh selection circuit masking said internal refresh request output from said refresh timer and outputting a test refresh request supplied through an external testing probe, instead of said internal refresh request, to said refresh control circuit in the test mode. The semiconductor memory according to claim 12, wherein    said refresh timer receives a refresh adjustment signal for changing a cycle of generation of said refresh request in the test mode. The semiconductor memory according to claim 12, wherein:  The semiconductor memory according to claim 17, wherein    an execution time of said first refresh operation is a time in which data to be rewritten to said memory cells by said first refresh operation is amplified to a signal quantity capable of being retained without loss until said second refresh operation is performed. A semiconductor memory comprising:  The semiconductor memory according to claim 19, wherein    said core control circuit    sets the end time to an earlier time if a difference between a time of reception of said access request and a time of occurrence of said refresh request is small, and    sets the end time to a later time if the difference between the time of reception of said access request and the time of occurrence of said refresh request is large. The semiconductor memory according to claim 19, comprising    an arbiter deciding precedence between an access operation corresponding to said access request and a refresh operation corresponding to said refresh request when a conflict occurs between said access request and said refresh request, and wherein:  The semiconductor memory according to claim 19, wherein:  The semiconductor memory according to claim 22, wherein:  The semiconductor memory according to claim 19, wherein:  The semiconductor memory according to claim 19, wherein    said core control circuit    sets the end time to said first time, thereby making said memory core perform a first short refresh operation, when said access request is supplied before said first time,    sets the end time to the supply time of said access request, thereby making said memory core perform a second short refresh operation, when said access request is supplied between said first time and said second time, and    sets the end time to said second time, thereby making said memory core perform a normal refresh operation, when said access request is supplied after said second time. The semiconductor memory according to claim 19, wherein:  The semiconductor memory according to claim 26, comprising    a refresh counter making a count operation in response to said refresh request in order to select said word lines in succession, and wherein    said first operation mode is entered when said normal refresh operation alone is performed and said refresh counter goes through a single round in the second operation mode. <seperator>EP-1385303-A2<id_sep>classH04class subgroupH04L12slash58subgroup sectionHsection sectionGsection subclassG06Fsubclass classG06class subclassG06Qsubclass groupG06F21slash00group subgroupH04L29slash06subgroup subclassH04Lsubclass groupG06Q10slash00group Method and device for preventing malicious computer code from propagating Computer-implemented methods, systems, and computer-readable media for detecting the presence of malicious computer code in an e-mail sent from a client computer (1) to an e-mail server (2). An embodiment of the inventive method comprises the steps of: interposing (41) an e-mail proxy server (31) between the client computer (1) and the e-mail server (2); allowing (42) the proxy server (31) to intercept e-mails sent from the client computer (1) to the e-mail server (2); enabling (43) the proxy server (31) to determine when a file (30) is attempting to send itself (30) as part of an e-mail; and declaring (44) a suspicion of malicious computer code when the proxy server (31) determines that a file (30) is attempting to send itself (30) as part of an e-mail.  This invention pertains to the field of preventing malicious attacks to computers, and, in particular, preventing e-mail propagation of malicious computer code. As used herein, "malicious computer code" is any code that enters a computer without an authorized user's knowledge and/or without an authorized user's consent. Malicious computer code that propagates from one computer to another over a network, e.g., via e-mail, is often referred to as a "worm". Most worms that spread from one computer to another are spread via e-mail over the Internet. The most common way to send e-mail over the Internet is using the SMTP (Simple Mail Transfer Protocol). SMTP is part of TCP/IP (Transfer Control Protocol/Internet Protocol). SMTP was originally designed to send only that e-mail that consists solely of text and that is encoded using the ASCII character set, which is limited. It soon became apparent that computer users wished to send other than straight ASCII characters as e-mail, and so encoding schemes such as UUencode and MIME were developed. These encoding schemes are capable of encoding any type of file, including a binary graphics file, into ASCII so that it can be sent as an e-mail attachment. Figure 1 illustrates a common system by which a client computer 1 can send e-mail to a recipient computer 5 over an open network 4 such as the Internet. In Figure 1, it is assumed that there are a plurality N of client computers 1 located within an enterprise 3. Enterprise 3 may be a company, a university, a government agency, etc. Computers 1 are coupled to each other and to an e-mail server computer 2 over a Local Area Network (LAN) 6. E-mail server 2 collects and formats e-mails sent from computers 1 and sends them to the designated recipients 5 using the SMTP protocol. It is assumed that there are a plurality J of recipient computers. Figure 2 illustrates a similar network in which client computers 1 are not associated with the same enterprise 3, but rather may be more geographically dispersed and are subscribers to an Internet Service Provider (ISP). In this case, computers 1 communicate with the ISP's e-mail server 2 via the Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN) 6. In other respects, the functioning of the networks illustrated in Figures 1 and 2 are the same. Disclosure of Invention Computer-implemented methods, systems, and computer-readable media for detecting the presence of malicious computer code in an e-mail sent from a client computer (1) to an e-mail server (2). An embodiment of the inventive method comprises the steps of: interposing (41) an e-mail proxy server (31) between the client computer (1) and the e-mail server (2); allowing (42) the proxy server (31) to intercept e-mails sent from the client computer (1) to the e-mail server (2); enabling (43) the proxy server (31) to determine when a file (30) is attempting to send itself (30) as part of an e-mail; and declaring (44) a suspicion of malicious computer code when the proxy server (31) determines that a file (30) is attempting to send itself (30) as part of an e-mail. A method for detecting the presence of malicious computer code in an e-mail sent from a client computer to an e-mail server, said method comprising the steps of:  The method of claim 1 wherein the proxy resides within the client computer. The method of claim 1 wherein the e-mail server and the proxy adhere to the SMTP protocol. The method of claim 1 further comprising, in response to the declaring step, the step of sending a message to a user of the client computer. The method of claim 4 wherein the message gives the user a plurality of choices, comprising at least one choice from the following group of choices:  The method of claim 5 further comprising, when the user chooses to quarantine the file, the step of encrypting the file and sending the file to an antivirus software company. The method of claim 1 further comprising, in response to the declaring step, the step of transmitting an alert to each computer in an enterprise associated with the client computer. The method of claim 1 further comprising, in response to the declaring step, the step of rescinding the declaration of suspicion when the file contains a digital signature and the digital signature is verified. The method of claim 1 wherein the enabling step comprises the substeps of:  The method of claim 1 wherein the enabling step comprises the proxy comparing a version of the file from the client computer with a version of the file from within the proxy. The method of claim 10 wherein a suspicion that malicious code is present in the file is declared when the two versions are nearly identical. The method of claim 11 when near identicalness is defined to mean that no more than one byte out of a preselected threshold number of bytes varies between the two versions. The method of claim 12 wherein the preselected threshold number is 512. Apparatus for detecting the presence of malicious computer code in an e-mail sent from a client computer to an e-mail server, said apparatus comprising:  The apparatus of claim 14 further comprising, coupled to the scan manager module, a decomposer module adapted to:  A computer-readable medium containing computer program instructions for detecting the presence of malicious computer code in an e-mail sent from a client computer to an e-mail server computer, said computer program instructions performing the steps of:  The computer-readable medium of claim 16 further comprising computer program instructions for, in response to the declaring step, sending a message to a user of the client computer giving said user a plurality of choices, comprising at least one choice from the following group of choices:  The computer-readable medium of claim 17 further comprising computer program instructions for, when the user chooses to quarantine the file, encrypting the file and sending the file to an antivirus software company. The computer-readable medium of claim 16 further comprising computer program instructions for, in response to the declaring step, transmitting an alert to each computer in an enterprise associated with the client computer. The computer-readable medium of claim 16 further comprising computer program instructions for, in response to the declaring step, rescinding the declaration of suspicion when the file contains a digital signature and the digital signature is verified. The computer-readable medium of claim 16 wherein the file is attempting to send itself as part of an e-mail body. The computer-readable medium of claim 16 wherein the file is attempting to send itself as part of an e-mail attachment. An electrical signal carrying processor implementable instructions for controlling a processor of a proxy computer to carry out the method of any one of claims 1 to 13. <seperator>EP-1919071-A2<id_sep>classH02class sectionHsection subclassH02Nsubclass groupH02N1slash00group A dielectric composite and a method of manufacturing a dielectric composite The invention provides a composite comprising a film made of a dielectric material. The film has a first surface and second surface, and at least the first surface comprises a surface pattern of raised and depressed surface portions. Furthermore, the film comprises a first electrically conductive layer being deposited onto the surface pattern. The electrically conductive layer has a corrugated shape which is formed by the surface pattern of the film. Thus, the present invention relates to micromechanical design of a composite substantially modifying its macro-electro-mechanical properties.  The present invention relates generally to the field of micro-electro-mechanical systems (MEMS) and micromechanically designed structures. More specifically, the present invention relates to a micromechanical design of a mechanical structure which substantially modifies its macro-electro-mechanical properties. Even more specifically, the invention relates to micromechanically shaping a dielectric film to give it unique mechanical properties, which reach through to the macro-electro-mechanical properties of transducers made by the film. An electrical potential difference between two electrodes located on opposite surfaces of an elastomeric body generates an electric field leading to a force of attraction. As a result, the distance between the electrodes changes and the change leads to compression of the elastomeric material which is thereby deformed. Due to certain similarities with a muscle, an elastomer actuator is sometimes referred to as an artificial muscle. The electrodes are described as having an 'in the plane' or 'out of the plane' compliance. In Also in The polymer may be pre-strained in one or more directions. Pre-strain may be achieved by mechanically stretching a polymer in one or more directions and fixing it to one or more solid members (e.g., rigid plates) while strained. Another technique for maintaining pre-strain includes the use of one or more stiffeners. The stiffeners are long rigid structures placed on a polymer while it is in a pre-strained state, e.g. while it is stretched. The stiffeners maintain the pre-strain along their axis. The stiffeners may be arranged in parallel or according to other configurations in order to achieve directional compliance of the transducer. Compliant electrodes disclosed in The polymer may be a commercially available product such as a commercially available acrylic elastomer film. It may be a film produced by casting, dipping, spin coating or spraying. Textured electrodes known in the prior art may, alternatively, be patterned photolithographically. In this case, a photoresist is deposited on a pre-strained polymer and patterned using a mask. Plasma etching may remove portions of the electroactive polymer not protected by the mask in a desired pattern. The mask may be subsequently removed by a suitable wet etch. The active surfaces of the polymer may then be covered with the thin layer of gold deposited by sputtering, for example. Producing electroactive polymers, and in particular rolled actuators, using the technique described in The manufacturing method is also described. Electrodes are applied to two polymers in the form of graphite powder, where the two polymers are being unrolled from two supply rolls. These two polymers with electrodes on one side, is then laminated with one on top of the other, so that the electrode of the second of the polymers is positioned against the electrode free surface of the first polymer. This manufacturing method is however not usable when dealing with elastomeric webs, especially when they have thicknesses in the order of hundred micrometers or less. Finally, in order to obtain the necessary compliance using the prior art technology, it is necessary to use materials having a relatively high electrical resistance for the electrodes. Since a rolled actuator with a large number of windings will implicitly have very long electrodes, the total electrical resistance for the electrodes will be very high. The response time for an actuator of this kind is given by τ A composite comprising:  A composite according to claim 1, wherein the electrically conductive layer has a modulus of elasticity being higher than a modulus of elasticity of the film. A composite according to claims 1 or 2, provided as a web of potentially unlimited length. A composite according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the dielectric material is a polymer material. A composite according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the dielectric material has properties similar to an elastomer. A composite according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the film has a largest thickness which is less than 110 percent of an average thickness of the film. A composite according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the film has a smallest thickness which is at least 90 percent of an average thickness of the film. A composite according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the first electrically conductive layer has a largest thickness which is less than 110 percent of an average thickness of the first electrically conductive layer. A composite according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the first electrically conductive layer has a smallest thickness which is at least 90 percent of an average thickness of the first electrically conductive layer. A composite according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the surface pattern comprises waves forming troughs and crests extending in essentially one common direction, each wave defining a height being a shortest distance between a crest and neighbouring troughs. A composite according to claim 10, wherein the waves have a shape which is periodically repeated. A composite according to claims 10-11, wherein an average height of the waves is between 1/3 and 20 µm. A composite according to claim 12, wherein each wave defines, a largest wave having a height of at most 110 percent of the average wave height. A composite according to any of claims 12-13, wherein each wave defines a smallest wave having a height of at least 90 percent of the average wave height. A composite according to any of claims 10-14, wherein the film has an average thickness being between 10 and 200 µm. A composite according to any of claims 10-14, wherein a ratio between an average height of the waves and an average thickness of the film is between 1/50 and ½. A composite according to any of claims 10-14, wherein the waves have a wavelength defined as the shortest distance between two crests, and wherein a ratio between an average height of the waves and an average wavelength is between 1/30 and 2. A composite according to any of the claims 10-17, wherein a ratio between an average thickness of the first electrically conductive layer and an average height of the waves is between 1/1000 and 1/50. A composite according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the first electrically conductive layer has a thickness in the range of 0.01-0.1 µm. A composite according to any of the preceding claims and being substantially longer in a lengthwise direction than in a perpendicular crosswise direction. A composite according to claim 20, wherein the surface pattern defines a compliance direction in which the composite is mostly compliant, wherein the compliance direction forms an angle between 0 and 90 degrees to the lengthwise direction. A composite according to claim 21, wherein the composite has a compliance in the compliance direction which is at least 50 times larger than its compliance in a direction being at least substantially perpendicular to the compliance direction. A composite according to any of the claims 20-22, wherein the surface pattern forms wave crests and troughs extending essentially in the lengthwise direction. A composite according to any of the claims 20-22, wherein the surface pattern forms wave crests and troughs extending essentially in the crosswise direction. A composite according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the surface pattern comprises a plurality of identical sub patterns A composite according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the film has a surface with a shape which is essentially unaffected by its contact with the first electrically conductive layer. A composite according to claim 26, wherein the composite has a shape which is essentially unaffected by an elastic modulus of the first electrically conductive layer. A composite according to any of claims 26-27, wherein the film has a surface with a shape which is essentially unaffected by the thickness of the first electrically conductive layer. A composite according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the film has a surface with a shape which is essentially unaffected by an elastic modulus of the film. A composite according to claim 29, wherein the film has a surface with a shape which is essentially unaffected by the thickness of the film. A composite according to any of the preceding claims comprising a second electrically conductive layer arranged on an opposite surface of the film relative to the first electrically conductive layer to form an electroactive composite. A composite according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the second surface comprises a surface pattern covered by an electrically conductive layer. A composite according to any of the claims 1-31, wherein the second surface is substantially flat. A composite according to any of the preceding claims, wherein a resistivity of the dielectric material is larger than 10 A composite according to any of the preceding claims, wherein a resistivity of the electrically conductive material is less than 10 A multilayer composite comprising at least two layers of composite, each composite layer comprising:  A multilayer composite according to claim 36, wherein the raised and depressed surface portions of the surface pattern of the film of each composite layer have a shape and/or a size which varies periodically along at least one direction of the front surface. A multilayer composite according to claim 36 or 37, wherein the composite layers are arranged with the rear surfaces towards each other. A multilayer composite according to any of the claims 36-38, wherein the composite layers are adhesively bonded to each other. A multilayer composite according to any of the claims 36-39, wherein the film of each composite layer comprises waves forming crests and troughs extending in one common direction. A multilayer composite according to claim 40, wherein composite layers are arranged relative to each other to provide a shortest possible distance between crests of one layer and crests of another layer. A multilayer composite according to claim 40, wherein the composite layers are arranged relative to each other to provide a longest possible distance between crests of one layer and crests of another layer. A method of making a polymeric composite, the method comprising:  A method according to claim 43, wherein the step of coating the film with a first electrically conductive layer comprises the step of using a shape of the polymeric film to shape the electrically conductive layer. A method according to claim 43 or 44, wherein the electrically conductive layer is deposited on the film in a physical vapour deposition process. A method according to any of the claims 43-45, wherein the electrically conductive layer is deposited onto the film in a thickness of 0.1-0.01 micrometer. A method according to claim 46, wherein the thickness is controlled by quartz crystal micro balance. A method according to claim 46 or 47, wherein the electrically conductive layer is made in a sputtering process. A method according to claim 46 or 47, wherein the electrically conductive layer is made in an electron beam process. A method according to any of claims 43-49, wherein the step of depositing an electrically conductive layer comprises depositing a first electrically conductive layer and depositing a second electrically conductive layer on top of the first electrically conductive layer. A method according to claim 50, wherein the step of depositing the first electrically conductive layer and the step of depositing a second electrically conductive layer are performed at different depositing rates. A method according to claim 50 or 51, wherein the step of depositing a first electrically conductive layer comprises depositing a first material, and the step of depositing a second electrically conductive layer comprises depositing a second material. A method according to any of claims 43-52, wherein the film is provided by use of a liquid polymer and a reverse roll process. A method according to any of claims 43-53, wherein the film is provided by use of a liquid polymer and a gravure roll process. A method according to any of claims 43-54, wherein the film is provided by use of a liquid polymer and a slot die coating process. A method according to any of the claims 53-55, wherein the liquid polymer comprises a solvent. A method according to claims 43-56, wherein the film is exposed to heat or ultraviolet light to initiate cross-linking. A method according to any of the claims 43-57, wherein the film is treated with a plasma to improve adhesion of the electrically conductive layer. A method according to claim 58, wherein the treatment is conducted with a glow discharge which is known to generate mild plasma. A method according to claim 58 or 59, wherein an adhesion promoter is applied to at least said portion of the film after the step of plasma treating and before the step of depositing the electrically conductive layer thereon. A method according to claim 60, wherein the adhesion promoter is provided by applying a layer of chromium or titanium between the film and the electrically conductive layer. A method according to claim 60 or 61, wherein the adhesion promoter is applied to the film of the dielectric material in a physical vapour deposition process. A transducer comprising a composite according to any of the claims 1-35 or comprising a multilayer composite according to any of the claims 36-42. <seperator>EP-1398081-A1<id_sep>sectionBsection groupB01J37slash00group classF01class subgroupB01J37slash02subgroup subclassB01Dsubclass subgroupB01J23slash54subgroup subgroupB01J23slash58subgroup subgroupB01J35slash04subgroup subclassC04Bsubclass subgroupB01D53slash94subgroup subclassB01Jsubclass groupB01J35slash00group classB01class groupC04B38slash00group subgroupF01N3slash035subgroup sectionFsection sectionCsection classC04class subgroupF01N3slash022subgroup subclassF01Nsubclass Filter catalyst for purifying diesel engine exhaust gases and manufacturing method thereof The filter catalyst for purifying exhaust gases having a catalytic layer comprising the first catalyst support 2 having an average particle diameter of 1 µm or less, the second catalyst support 3 having an average particle diameter from 1/20 to 1/2 of the average pore diameter of the filter cellular walls 12 and catalytic ingredients, on the filter cellular walls 12 having an average pore diameter of from 20 to 40 µm, and the catalytic layer having uneven surfaces is used. Since the second catalyst support hardly enters into the pore with a diameter of 20µm or less, it exists partly on the filter cellular walls and the inside surface of the wall. Therefore, since PMs collide with the convex part of the catalytic layer, it becomes possible to collect them easily and the collecting rate for PMs and the ability of PMs purification are improved.  BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Field of the Invention The present invention relates to a filter catalyst for purifying exhaust gases containing particulates, such as those emitted from diesel engines, and a manufacturing method thereof. Description of the Related Art Regarding gasoline engines, harmful components in the exhaust gases have been reduced securely by the strict regulations and the technology developments capable of coping with them. However, regarding diesel engines, the regulations and the technology developments have been advanced less compared to those of gasoline engines because of the unique circumstances that the harmful components are emitted as particulates (i.e., particulate matters, such as carbonaceous fine particles, sulfuric fine particles like sulfates, and high-molecular weight hydrocarbon fine particles, hereinafter collectively referred to as "PMs"). As exhaust-gas purifying apparatuses having been developed so far for diesel engines, the followings have been known. For example, the exhaust-gas purifying apparatuses can be roughly divided into trapping (or wall-flow) exhaust-gas purifying apparatuses and open (or straight flow) exhaust-gas purifying apparatuses. Among these, clogged honeycomb structures made from ceramic (i.e. diesel PMs filters, hereinafter referred to as "DPFs") have been known as one of the trapping exhaust-gas purifying apparatuses. In the DPFs, the honeycomb structures are clogged at the opposite openings of cells in a checkered manner alternately, for instance. The DPFs comprise inlet cells clogged on the downstream side of the exhaust gases, outlet cells clogged neighboring the inlet cells and clogged on the upstream side of the exhaust gases, and filter cellular walls demarcating the inlet cells and the outlet cells. In the DPFs, the exhaust gases are filtered by the pores of the filter cellular walls to collect PMs. In the DPFs, however, the pressure loss increases as PMs deposit thereon. Accordingly, it is needed to remove deposited PMs regularly to recover the DPFs, somehow. Hence, when the pressure loss increases, deposited PMs have been burned with burners or electric heaters conventionally to recover the PMs. However, the more the deposition mass of PMs is, the higher the temperature rises in burning deposited PMs. Consequently, there might arise cases that the DPFs are damaged by thermal stress caused by the temperature rise. Hence, continuously regenerative DPFs have been developed recently. In the continuously regenerative DPFs, a coating layer comprising alumina is formed on the surface of the filter cellulr walls of the DPFs, and a catalytic ingredient such as platinum (Pt) is loaded on the coating layer. In accordance with the continuously regenerative DPFs, since the collected PMs are oxidized and burned by the catalytic reaction of the catalytic ingredient, it is possible to regenerate the DPFs by burning PMs simultaneously with or successively after collecting PMs. Moreover, since the catalytic reaction occurs at low temperature, and since it is possible to burn PMs when they are collected less, the continuously regenerative DPFs have an advantage that the thermal stress onto the DPFs is so less that the DPFs are inhibited from being damaged. For example, Japanese Unexamined Patent Publication (KOKAI) No. 9-173,866 discloses such a continuously regenerative DPFs with a filter cellular wall on which a porous coating layer comprising activated alumina with a particle diameter larger than the average pore diameter of the filter cellular wall is formed, and the inside of the pore is coated with activated alumina with a particle diameter less than the average pore diameter of the filter cellular wall and further, catalytic ingredients are loaded thereon. In accordance with the continuously regenerative DPFs, it is possible to make the pressure loss relative small to the increase of specific surface area of the porous coating layer. A filter catalyst for purifying exhaust gases comprising:  The filter catalyst set forth in claim 1, wherein the second catalyst support is loaded on the layer comprising the first catalyst support. The filter catalyst set forth in claim 1, wherein the porosity of the filter cellular walls is from 60 to 80 %. The filter catalyst set forth in one of the claims 1 to 3, wherein the catalytic layer contains an NOx sorbent selected from alkali metals, alkali earth metals or rare-earth elements, which is loaded at least on one of the first catalyst support and the second catalyst support. The filter catalyst set forth in one of the claims 1 to 4, wherein the catalytic layer contains an NOx-adsorbing member, by which NOx is adsorbed at low temperatures and is released at high temperatures. The filter catalyst set forth in one of the claims 1 to 4, wherein the catalytic layer contains an NOx-adsorbing member, comprising a powder including at least zirconia and ceria, and noble metal loaded on said powder. A manufacturing method of a filter catalyst for purifying exhaust gases, comprising steps of:  <seperator>EP-1281907-A2<id_sep>sectionFsection classF16class subgroupF16L21slash04subgroup subgroupF16L21slash02subgroup subclassF16Lsubclass Sleeve-type pipe joint with axially compressed packing ring A spacer-less type pipe joint comprises: a press ring (3) which has a protruding portion (3a) at its outer periphery and is fitted to an outer periphery of one end side of jointed pipe (1); a joint main body (2) which has a protruding portion (2a) opposing the protruding portion (3a) of the press ring (3) at the side opposing the press ring (3) and a receiving opening portion (2c) which is extended toward the press ring (3) at the inner peripheral side of the protruding portion and which is fitted to the outer periphery of the jointed pipe (1) with a peripheral clearance being formed therebetween; a securing tool (4) which can move the press ring (3) in a direction of the joint main body (2) ; and a packing ring (5) which is provided between the joint main body (2) and the jointed pipe (1) and fitted into the receiving opening portion (2c) by its elastic deformation due to direct press of the press ring moved by operation of the securing tool.  BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION FIELD OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to a spacer-less type pipe joint and a packing ring used for the same, and in particular, to a spacer-less pipe joint made of metal or resin and used for a water pipe or the like and a packing ring used for the same. DESCRIPTION OF THE RELATED ART Fig. 10 shows a structural example of this type of conventional pipe joint made of metal or resin and used for a water pipe or the like. The pipe joint is used to joint jointed pipes 61 and end portions of jointed pipes 61, which are made of metal or resin and oppose with each other on an axis such that expansion and flexibility shown by arrows are applied and a liquid is not leaked. That is, the pipe joint comprises a joint main body 62 and a pair of press rings 63, 63, and the press rings are clamped by securing tools 64 such as bolts. The joint main body 62 has flange-shaped protruding portions 62a, 62a opposing with each other. A cylindrical portion 62b is provided between these protruding portions 62a, 62a so as to be integral therewith. A receiving opening portion 62c which is extended taperingly toward an end portion is provided at an inner periphery of the protruding portion 62a. The press ring 63 also has a flange-shaped protruding portion 63a. The joint main body 62 is disposed at an outer periphery between the jointed pipes 61, 61 with a peripheral clearance formed there between, the press rings 63, 63 are disposed at opposite ends of the joint main body and clamped by the securing tools 64. By clamping with the securing tool 64, a rubber packing ring 65 disposed between the joint main body 62 and each of the press rings 63 is pressed by a distal end portion of the press ring 63 to be coupled to the receiving opening portion 62c, press-contacted to an outer peripheral surface of the jointed pipe 61, so that the jointed pipes 61, 61 are jointed together. In a case of the above-described conventional pipe joint, required components are transported to a field in a state of disassembled. Then, the components are assembled and applied. There may be found, among conventional other pipe joints, a pipe joint which is assembled in advance in order to even further improve workability in the field. Namely, an annular spacer 66 shown in Fig. 11 is used. As shown in Fig. 12 (a) , an engaging concave portion 67a of the rubber packing ring 67 is fitted into an engaging convex portion 66a of the spacer 66 so as to be assembled thereto. A distal end portion of the rubber packing ring 67 is entered into the receiving opening portion 68c of the joint main body 68 and the press ring 69 is clamped by a securing tool (not shown) until a positioning protrusion 66b of the spacer 66 abuts a corner of opening edge of the receiving opening portion 68c and fits the same. In this way, temporary assembling is performed. In temporarily assembled pipe joint, the rubber packing ring 67 is positioned (aligned) by the positioning protrusion 66b of the spacer 66 in an axial direction as well as a radial direction. A spacer-less type pipe joint comprising:  The pipe joint according to claim 1,characterized in that a concave is formed at the side of the stopper (5c) at the basal portion of the packing ring (5, 5A) that abuts the receiving opening portion (2c). The pipe joint according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that the stopper (5c) at the basal portion of the packing ring (5, 5A) has hardness HA of 90° ± 5°. The pipe joint according to any one of claims 1 to 3,characterized in that at the basal portion (5b) of the packing ring (5, 5A), an outer peripheral side fin portion (5e) which protrudes toward the press ring side is formed along a periphery of the press ring side outer peripheral end edge, and an inner periphery of the outer peripheral side fin portion (5e) is substantially the same as an outer diameter of the distal end portion of the press ring (3). The pipe joint according to any one of claims 1 to 4,characterized in that at the basal portion (5b) of the packing ring (5, 5A), an inner peripheral side fin portion which protrudes toward the press ring side is formed along a periphery of the press ring side inner peripheral end edge, and an outer periphery of the inner peripheral side fin portion (5d) is substantially the same as an inner diameter of the distal end portion of the press ring (3). The pipe joint according to any one of claims 1 to 5,characterized in that the distal end portion (5a) of the packing ring (5, 5A) is a soft portion and the basal portion (5b) thereof is a hard portion. The pipe joint according to any one of claims 1 to 6,characterized in that an inner periphery of the packing ring (5, 5A) is larger than an outer periphery of the jointed pipe (1) in a natural state. A packing ring adapted for use with the spacer-less type pipe joint according to any one of claims 1 to 7 comprising:  <seperator>EP-1223211-A1<id_sep>sectionBsection classG09class subclassC09Ksubclass subgroupG02B5slash02subgroup subgroupC09K19slash38subgroup sectionGsection subgroupG02B5slash30subgroup groupG09F9slash00group subclassG02Fsubclass classC09class subgroupG02F1slash13subgroup subclassG02Bsubclass sectionCsection subgroupB32B7slash02subgroup classB32class subclassB32Bsubclass subgroupG02F1slash1335subgroup subclassG09Fsubclass classG02class Optical diffusing plate, optical element and liquid crystal display An optical diffusing plate is disclosed that gives an anisotropic scattering of a linearly polarized light and has an excellent diffusion property in a scattering direction, and that is suitable for improving visibility and brightness of a liquid crystal display. The optical diffusing plate comprises a birefringent film (1) and minute domains (e) with birefringence characteristics different from those of the birefringent film (1) in a dispersed state in the birefringent film (1),  wherein the minute domains (e) comprise a side chain type liquid crystal polymer comprising a monomer unit containing a liquid crystalline fragment side chain and another monomer unit containing a non-liquid crystalline fragment side chain, and  wherein a first refractive index difference (Δn1), between the birefringent film (1) and the minute domains (e) in a direction orthogonal to the axial direction which gives maximum transmittance of linearly polarized light is 0.03 or more, and a second refractive index difference (Δn2), in the axial direction which gives maximum transmittance is 80 % or less of the first refractive index difference (Δn1).  BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Field of the Invention The present invention relates to an optical diffusing plate that gives an anisotropic scattering of a linearly polarized light and has an excellent diffusion property in a scattering direction, and that is suitable for improving visibility, brightness etc. of a liquid crystal display etc. Moreover, the present invention relates to an optical element using the optical diffusing plate concerned. Description of the Prior Art Conventionally, an optical diffusing plate designed so that anisotropic scattering might be given to a linearly polarized light by making a domain with a refractive index anisotropy contained in a dispersed state in a base material has been known. As the optical diffusing plate concerned; an optical diffusing plate that comprises a combination of a thermoplastic resin anda low molecular weight liquid crystal, that comprises a combination of a low molecular weight liquid crystal and a photo-curable low molecular weight liquid crystal and that comprises a combination of a polyvinyl alcohol and a low molecule liquid crystal, have been known (USP No. 2123902 specification, WO 87/01822 official gazette, JP-A 9-274108). What is expected in the above-mentioned optical diffusing plate is that supplying a linearly polarized light in a state difficult to be absorbed by a polarizing plate reduces an absorption loss, and consequently the brightness of a liquid crystal display is improved. It is expected using this method that the following conventional problems may be solved; a problem based on a large wavelength dependability of a cholesteric liquid crystal in the conventional absorption loss reduction systems in which a cholesteric liquid crystal layer and a quarter wavelength plate are used, and especially, problems that transmitted light is chromatic from oblique direction and that these cannot be applied to a reflected type liquid crystal display etc. However, in the above-mentioned conventional optical diffusing plate, there were problems of a difficulty in manufacturing, and of a practical usability in difficult handling with a poor functional stability, when applied in a liquid crystal display, etc. As an optical diffusing plate in which the above-mentioned problem was solved, an optical diffusing plate using a birefringent film that contains minute domains with different birefringent characteristics in a dispersed state is proposed (JP-A 2000-187105). Although the above-mentioned problem is solved and excellent polarization characteristics are developed using this optical diffusion plate, the further improvement is desired about polarization characteristics. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION An object of the present invention is to provide an optical diffusing plate that is easily manufactured and has outstanding thermal and chemical stability and is excellent in practical use or is excelled in polarization characteristics, and in which while brightness is increased as a result of supplying linearly polarized light with reduced absorption loss by polarizing plate, chromatic problem is rarely induced, and that is applicable to reflected type liquid crystal display etc. And another object of the present invention is to provide an optical element and further a liquid crystal display using the above-mentioned optical diffusing plate. As a result of repeated examinations carried out wholeheartedly by the present inventors to solve the above-mentioned problems, it was found out, as is shown below, that the above-mentioned object was attained and the present invention was completed using an optical diffusing plate in which a side chain type liquid crystal copolymer is used as a minute domain contained in dispersed state in a birefringent film. An optical diffusing plate, comprising    a birefringent film (1) and a minute domain (e) with a birefringent characteristic different from the birefringent film (1) in a dispersed state in the birefringent film (1),    wherein the minute domain (e) comprises a side chain type liquid crystal polymer comprising a monomer unit (a) containing a liquid crystalline fragment side chain and a monomer unit (b) containing a non-liquid crystalline fragment side chain, and    wherein a first refractive index difference (Δn1) between the birefringent film (1) and the minute domain (e) in a direction orthogonal to an axial direction that gives a maximum transmittance of linearly polarized light is 0.03 or more, and a second refractive index difference (Δn2) in an axial direction that gives a maximum transmittance is 80 % or less of the first refractive index difference (Δn1). The optical diffusing plate according to claim 1, wherein the minute domain (e) is distributed in a dispersed state caused by phase separation, and the length in the direction of the first refractive index (Δn1) of the minute domain (e) (direction orthogonal to the axial direction) is from 0.05 µm to 500 µm. An optical diffusing plate, wherein two or more of the optical diffusing plates according to claim 1 or 2 are laminated so that the direction of the first refractive index difference (Δn1) of an upper layer and a lower layer have a mutually parallel relationship. An optical element comprising a laminated layer of at least one kind selected from a polarizing plate (4) and a retardation plate, and the optical diffusing plate according to any of claims 1 to 3. The optical element according to claim 4, wherein a transmission axis of a polarizing plate (4) and the direction of the second refractive index difference ((Δn2) of an optical diffusing plate (the axial direction) have a mutually parallel relationship. A liquid crystal display comprising the optical diffusing plate according to any of claims 1 to 3 or the optical element according to claim 4 or claim 5 on one side or both sides of liquid crystal cells. <seperator>EP-1582108-A1<id_sep>classA43class subgroupA43B13slash18subgroup subgroupA43B13slash14subgroup groupA43B3slash00group subgroupA43B21slash26subgroup subclassA43Bsubclass sectionAsection groupA43B21slash00group Intelligent footwear systems The invention is directed to intelligent systems for articles of footwear that adjust automatically in response to a measured performance characteristic. The intelligent systems include one or more adjustable elements (124,324,724,1524,1624,1724) coupled to a mechanism that actuates the adjustable elements in response to a signal from a sensor (122,722,1104) to modify the performance characteristic of the article of footwear. The intelligent system adjusts the performance characteristics of the article of footwear without human intervention.  The invention generally relates to intelligent systems for articles of footwear. In particular, the invention relates to automatic, self-adjusting systems that modify a performance characteristic of the article of footwear. Conventional athletic shoes include an upper and a sole. The material of the sole is usually chosen with a view towards optimizing a particular performance characteristic of the shoe, for example, stability or stiffness. Typically, the sole includes a midsole and an outsole, either of which can include a resilient material to protect a wearer's foot and leg. One drawback with conventional shoes is that performance characteristics, such as cushioning and stiffness, are not adjustable. The wearer must, therefore, select a specific shoe for a specific activity. For example, for activities requiring greater cushioning, such as running, the wearer must select one type of shoe and for activities requiring greater stiffness for support during lateral movement, such as basketball, the wearer must select a different type of shoe. Some shoes have been designed to allow for adjustment in the degree of cushioning or stiffness provided by the sole. Many of these shoes employ a fluid bladder that can be inflated or deflated as desired. A disadvantage presented by these shoes is that one or more of the bladders can fail, rendering the cushioning system effectively useless. Moreover, many of the shoes employing fluid bladders do not allow for small-scale changes to the degree of cushioning provided by the sole. Often, the change to the degree of cushioning provided by the sole in pressurizing or depressurizing, or in partially pressurizing or partially depressurizing, a bladder will be larger than that desired by the wearer. In other words, bladders are typically not capable of fine adjustments. A further disadvantage of many of the shoes designed to allow for adjustment in the degree of cushioning or stiffness provided by the sole is that they are only manually adjustable. Accordingly, in order to adjust such shoes the wearer is required to interrupt the specific activity in which he/she is engaged. With some shoes, the wearer may also be required to partially disassemble the shoe, re-assemble the shoe, and even exchange shoe parts. Moreover, the wearer, to his or her dissatisfaction, may be limited in the amount of adjustment that can be made. Some shoes have been designed to automatically adjust the degree of cushioning or stiffness provided by the sole. These shoes measure the amount of force or pressure exerted on the sole by the wearer's foot when the wearer's foot strikes the ground. Through analysis and investigation, it has been discovered that the mere measurement of force or pressure alone, however, is too limited, as it provides no information relating to the performance of the shoe. For example, measuring force provides no indication as to whether the sole has either over-compressed or under-compressed for that particular wearer without prior investigation into the normal forces exerted by the wearer during the activity. If the sole is either over-compressed or under-compressed, the shoe is poorly matched to the wearer's activity and needs. In essence, the wearer's body has to adapt to the shoe. The biomechanical needs of the wearer are poorly met, if at all. A method for modifying a performance characteristic of an article of footwear during use, the method comprising the steps of:  The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of receiving a user input related to adjustment of the sole from a user of the article of footwear. The method of claim 2 further comprising the step of adjusting a hardness setting for the sole in response to receiving the user input. The method of claim 3 further comprising the step of displaying the hardness setting for the sole by activating at least one electro-luminescent element disposed on the article of footwear. The method of claim 2 further comprising the step of calculating at least one threshold of compression in response to receiving the user input, the at least one threshold of compression for use in determining whether adjustment of the sole is required. The method of claim 5, wherein the at least one threshold of compression comprises a lower threshold of compression and an upper threshold of compression. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of measuring the sensor signal comprises sampling the sensor signal a plurality of times. The method of claim 7, wherein the step of measuring the sensor signal further comprises calculating an average value for the sensor signal by averaging a subset of the plurality of samples of the sensor signal. The method of claim 1 further comprising repeating the step of measuring the sensor signal at least once to obtain a plurality of measurements of the sensor signal. The method of claim 9, wherein the step of determining whether the sole has compressed comprises calculating a difference between an average of a plurality of previously obtained measurements of the sensor signal and the most recently obtained measurement of the sensor signal. The method of claim 10, wherein the step of determining whether the sole has compressed further comprises calculating the difference each time a new measurement of the sensor signal is obtained. The method of claim 11, wherein the step of determining whether the sole has compressed further comprises determining whether a predetermined number of the calculated differences is greater than a predetermined constant. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of measuring the sensor signal comprises measuring compression in the sole, and wherein the step of determining whether adjustment of the sole is required comprises determining the maximum amount of measured compression in the sole. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of determining whether adjustment of the sole is required comprises determining whether there is a change in a surface condition on which the article of footwear is used. The method of claim 14, wherein determining whether there is a change in the surface condition on which the article of footwear is used comprises determining whether there is a change in a first parameter over time and substantially no change in a second parameter over time. The method of claim 14, wherein determining whether there is a change in the surface condition on which the article of footwear is used comprises determining whether there is a change in an absolute compression in the sole over time and substantially no change in a deviation of the compression in the sole over time. The method of claim 14, wherein determining whether there is a change in the surface condition on which the article of footwear is used comprises determining whether there is a change in a deviation of the compression in the sole over time and substantially no change in an absolute compression in the sole over time. The method of claim 14, wherein the surface condition on which the article of footwear is used is determined to have changed from a hard ground surface to a soft ground surface. The method of claim 14, wherein the surface condition on which the article of footwear is used is determined to have changed from a soft ground surface to a hard ground surface. The method of claim 14, wherein the determination of whether there is a change in a surface condition on which the article of footwear is used is made after a wearer of the article of footwear has taken a plurality of steps. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of determining whether adjustment of the sole is required comprises determining that the compression in the sole is less than a lower threshold of compression. The method of claim 21, wherein the step of adjusting the sole comprises softening the sole. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of determining whether adjustment of the sole is required comprises determining that the compression in the sole is greater than an upper threshold of compression. The method of claim 23, wherein the step of adjusting the sole comprises hardening the sole. The method of claim 1, wherein the adjustment of the sole is made after a wearer of the article of footwear has taken a plurality of steps. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of adjusting the sole comprises actuating a motor located within the sole. The method of claim 26 further comprising the step of determining status of the motor located within the sole. The method of claim 27, wherein the step of determining the motor status comprises sampling a battery voltage. A controller for modifying a performance characteristic of an article of footwear during use, the controller comprising:  An article of footwear including an upper coupled to a sole and a controller at least partially disposed within the sole, the controller comprising:  <seperator>EP-1321292-A2<id_sep>subgroupB32B7slash06subgroup sectionBsection subgroupB32B7slash12subgroup subclassG03Csubclass sectionGsection subgroupG03C1slash76subgroup subclassB32Bsubclass classG03class classB32class Label with curl and moisture resistant protective layer The invention relates to a packaging label comprising in order an environmental protection layer, an image formed by means of silver halide, a base, an adhesive, and a peelable back wherein said environmental protection layer comprises a mixture of vinyl polymer and urethane polymer wherein said urethane polymer has an indentation modulus less than 0.6 GPa and wherein said environmental protection layer is less than 10 micrometers in thickness. FIELD OF THE INVENTION The invention relates to environmental protection for packaging materials. In a preferred form it relates to the use of silver halide pressure sensitive label for the printing of text, graphics and images applied to packaging material having a curl and moisture resistant protective overcoat, that also resists fingerprints and scratches. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Pressure sensitive labels are applied to packages to build brand awareness, describe the contents of the package, convey a quality message regarding the contents of a package and supply consumer information such as directions on product use, or an ingredient listing of the contents. Printing on the pressure sensitive label is typically printed by using gravure printing or flexography is applied to the package. The three types of information applied to a pressure sensitive label are text, graphic and images. Some packages only require one type of information while other packages require more than one type of information. Prior art labels that are applied to packages consist of a face stock material, a pressure sensitive adhesive and a liner. The label substrate consisting of the face stock, pressure sensitive adhesive and liner are typically laminated and then printed utilizing a variety of non-photographic printing methods. After printing, the labels are generally protected by an over laminate material or a protective coating. The completed label consisting of a protection layer, printed information, base and pressure sensitive adhesive is applied to packages utilizing high speed labeling equipment. Flexography is an offset letterpress technique where the printing plates are made from rubber or photopolymers. The printing on pressure sensitive label is accomplished by the transfer of ink from the raised surface of the printing plate to the surface of the material being printed. The rotogravure method of printing uses a print cylinder with thousands of tiny cells which are below the surface of the printing cylinder. The ink is transferred from the cells when the print cylinder is brought into contact with the pressure sensitive label at the impression roll. Printing inks for flexography or rotogravure include solvent based inks, water based inks and radiation cured inks. While rotogravure and flexography printing do provide acceptable image quality, these two printing methods require expensive and time consuming preparation of print cylinders or printing plates which make printing jobs of less than 100,000 units expensive as the set up cost and the cost of the cylinders or printing plates is typically depreciated over the size of the print job. Recently, digital printing has become a viable method for the printing of information on packages. The term digital printing refers to the electronic digital characters or electronic digital images that can be printed by an electronic output device capable of translating digital information. The two main digital printing technologies are ink jet and electrophotography. The introduction of piezo impulse drop-on-demand (DOD) and thermal DOD ink jet printers in the early 1980's provided ink jet printing systems. These early printers were very slow, and the ink jet nozzles often clogged. In the 1990's Hewlett Packard introduced the first monochrome ink jet printer, and, shortly thereafter, the introduction of color, wide format ink jet printers enabled businesses to enter the graphic arts market. Today, a number of different ink jet technologies are being used for packaging, desktop, industrial, commercial, photographic, and textile applications. A packaging label comprising in order an environmental protection layer, an image formed in a gelatin media, a base, an adhesive, and a peelable back wherein said environmental protection layer comprises a mixture of vinyl polymer and urethane polymer wherein said urethane polymer has an indentation modulus less than 0.6 GPa and wherein said environmental protection layer is less than 10 micrometers in thickness. The packaging label of claim 1 wherein said vinyl polymer comprises at least one acrylic polymer or a vinyl-urethane hybrid polymer or a polyolefin. The packaging label of claim 1 or 2 wherein the said mixture of vinyl polymer and urethane polymer comprises an amount in the environmental protective layer of from 15 to 65 weight percent of the vinyl polymer. The packaging label of any of claims 1-3 wherein said urethane polymer comprises an aliphatic polyurethane. The packaging label of any of claims 1-4 wherein said environmental protection layer has a thickness of between 1 to 5 micrometers. A method of forming a packaging label comprising providing a photographic element comprising in order an environmental protection layer, an image formed in a gelatin media, a base, an adhesive, and a peelable back and coating said image formed in a gelatin medium with an environmental protection layer, wherein said environmental protection layer comprises a mixture of vinyl polymer and urethane polymer, wherein said urethane polymer has an indentation modulus less than 0.6 GPa, and wherein said environmental protection layer is less than 10 micrometers in thickness. The method of claim 6 wherein coating liquid viscosity is 20-50 centipoise, and said coating method comprises either direct gravure, or offset gravure coating, at coating speeds over 200 feet per min. The method of claim 6 or 7 wherein coating liquid viscosity is 1-10 centipoise, and said coating method comprises either reverse gravure coating or Mayer rod coating, at coating speeds over 200 feet per minute. The method of any of claims 5-7 wherein said image formed by means of silver halide comprises cyan dye, magenta dye, and yellow dye formed by means of dye forming couplers. A packaging label comprising in order an environmental protection layer, an adhesion layer comprising a mixture of vinyl polymer and urethane polymer an image formed in a gelatin media, a base, an adhesive, and a peelable back wherein said environmental protection layer comprises an oriented polymer sheet. <seperator>EP-1310154-A1<id_sep>sectionBsection subclassA01Fsubclass subgroupB65B11slash02subgroup groupB65B57slash00group subgroupB65H26slash02subgroup groupA01F15slash00group classB65class classA01class subgroupB65B11slash04subgroup groupB65H26slash00group subgroupA01F15slash07subgroup sectionAsection subclassB65Hsubclass subclassB65Bsubclass Device for wrapping bodies, in particular bales of harvested material The invention relates to a device for wrapping bodies, in particular harvested material bales (1) of hay, straw or wilted green crop, at least one wrapping material web being drawn off from a wrapping material supply (8) during the wrapping process and a means being provided which signals a tear in the wrapping material web or that the wrapping material supply (8) has been used up. In order to improve the device and to develop a simple and in particular cheaper solution, it is proposed according to the invention that at least one optical sensor (14, 15), ultrasonic sensor or sensor for electromagnetic waves/fields of different frequency ranges be associated with the wrapping material web portion (18) between wrapping material supply (8) and the body (1) and disposed stationarily.  The invention relates to a device for wrapping bodies, in particular harvested material bales according to the precharacterising clause of claim 1. The above-described device may be derived from DE 200 15 540 U1. Herein, a switch element is arranged on the rotary arm. This switch element swivels radially outwards in the event of the film tearing off or reaching its end and interacts with a signal generator arranged stationarily in the circular path of revolution of the rotary arm. The advantage is that this device does not require any power to be transmitted by the upper rotary arm bearing arrangement, since the signal generator is arranged stationarily. However, a disadvantageous feature is the functional unreliability in the event of varying film tensions. Moreover, a relatively large number of special parts are required. The following applications disclose further embodiments: DT 2435785 A1, EP 0924133 A1 and WO 98/41450. In addition, film tear indicators for round baler/wrapper combinations of the type Rollant 250RC UNIWRAP, made by Claas and for example Type 65040 Kombi Göweil are commercially available. The latter require relatively complex power transmission systems between rotary arm and frame. The object of the invention is to improve the above-described device and to develop a simple and in particular cheaper solution. This object is achieved according to the invention in that at least one optical sensor, ultrasonic sensor or sensor for electromagnetic waves/fields of different frequency ranges is associated with the wrapping material web portion between wrapping material supply and the body and disposed stationarily. This solution according to the invention operates independently of the tension of the wrapping material, such that not only through-tears in the wrapping material web but also holes caused by overstretching of the film or partial tears may be detected, which none of the other known means can do. Moving parts are dispensed with due to the stationary mounting of the sensors, such that adjustment is easily feasible. Only low-cost standard elements are used, which may be particularly advantageously integrated into an electronic machine control system. An advantageous embodiment consists in that the optical sensor takes the form of a one-way light barrier with a receiver on the one side of the wrapping material web portion and with a transmitter arranged in alignment with the received on the other side of the wrapping material web portion. Infrared transmitters have proven useful due to their insensitivity to dust. A structurally particularly simple embodiment is provided by the use of a reflex sensor, which operates with reflected light or reflected sound waves and thereby detects whether a wrapping material web portion is present. Alternatively, X-rays or other light wavelengths may also be used. For particular dusty operation, provision is made for one or more sensors to be associated with a cleaning device. Further features and advantages of the invention are revealed by the remaining subclaims and by the following description of an exemplary embodiment, with reference to a single Figure providing a schematic illustration thereof. The attached Figure shows a bale wrapper of known construction for wrapping a bale 1 of harvested material in film 2. The bale wrapper consists substantially of a stationary wrapping table 3 with drivable conveyor elements 4 and a wrapping device with a rotary arm 5, which is mounted on a frame 7 so as to be rotatable about a vertical axis of rotation 6 and carries at the lower end a film supply roll 8 as a wrapping material supply and a stretching unit 9. A device for wrapping bodies, in particular harvested material bales (1) of hay, straw or wilted green crop, at least one wrapping material web being drawn off from a wrapping material supply (8) during the wrapping process and a means being provided which signals a tear in the wrapping material web or that the wrapping material supply (8) has been used up, characterised in that at least one optical sensor (14, 15), ultrasonic sensor or sensor for electromagnetic waves/fields of different frequency ranges is associated with the wrapping material web portion (18) between wrapping material supply (8) and the body (1) and disposed stationarily. A device according to claim 1, characterised in that the optical sensor takes the form of a one-way photoelectric barrier with a receiver (14) on the one side of the wrapping material web portion (18) and with a transmitter (15) arranged in alignment (16) with the receiver (14) on the other side of the wrapping material web portion (18). A device according to claim 1, characterised in that the optical sensor takes the form of a reflex light barrier, with transmitter and receiver on the one side of the wrapping material web portion (18) and reflector on the other side of the wrapping material web portion (18). A device according to claim 1, characterised in that a reflex sensor serves as optical sensor, which reflex sensor operates with reflected light and detects whether or not a wrapping material web portion (18) is present. A device according to claim 1, characterised in that at least one ultrasound sensor is directed towards the wrapping material web portion (18) between wrapping material supply (8) and harvested material bale (1). A device according to one or more of the preceding claims, characterised in that one or more sensors (14, 15) with soiling detectors is/are provided. A device according to one or more of the preceding claims, characterised in that one or more sensors (14, 15) is/are associated with a cleaning device (23). A device according to one or more of the preceding claims, characterised in that one or more sensors (14, 15) is/are directly or indirectly in active connection with evaluating electronics (21) and/or a control unit for the machine control system together with a display/operating unit (22). A device according to one or more of the preceding claims, characterised in that the wrapping material supply (8) is arranged on a rotary arm (5) revolving round the harvested material bale (1) during the wrapping process and evaluation for tears in the wrapping material web portion (18) or full consumption of the wrapping material supply (8) is performed if the wrapping material web portion (18) runs through the working area of one or more sensors (14, 15). A device according to one or more of the preceding claims, characterised in that checking for soiling of one or more sensors (14, 15) is performed at least once during one revolution of the rotary arm (5) in a position in which the working area of the relevant sensor(s) (14, 15) is completely free of articles or wrapping web material. A device according to claim 6 and 7 or 10, characterised in that the cleaning device (23) may be activated manually or automatically as a function of degree of soiling. A device according to one or more of the preceding claims, characterised by a position sensor (19, 20) for the rotary arm (5) and/or a timer, which is in active connection at least with the evaluation electronics (21) of one or more sensors (14, 15). <seperator>EP-1452814-A1<id_sep>subgroupF28D1slash04subgroup sectionFsection subgroupF28F9slash18subgroup classF28class subgroupF28F1slash02subgroup subgroupF28F9slash04subgroup subgroupF28F9slash26subgroup subgroupF28D1slash053subgroup subclassF28Fsubclass subclassF28Dsubclass HEAT EXCHANGER AND TUBE FOR HEAT EXCHANGER A heat exchanger and its tubes, wherein the heat exchanger includes a core 300a, having a lamination of flat tubes 301 for flowing a refrigerant and corrugated fins 302, and tanks 310 having slots for insertion of the ends of tubes, the core is configured to have the flat surfaces of the tubes in parallel with the airflow direction, and the tubes have their ends 301a twisted in the width direction by 90° with respect to the airflow direction. A heat exchanger for a supercritical refrigeration cycle has tanks 310a, 310c displaced in a direction orthogonal to the airflow direction on one side of plural cores 300a, 300b which are overlaid in the airflow direction, and an inlet 320 and an outlet 330 for the refrigerant are oriented toward the windward side or the downwind side of the airflow direction.  The present invention relates to a heat exchanger, which is provided with a core comprising flat tubes for flowing a refrigerant and corrugated fins, and tanks with slots for insertion of the ends of the tubes, and carries out heat exchange by flowing air to the core and transferring heat to the core. A heat exchanger such as a radiator or an evaporator to be used for a refrigeration cycle is known that a core is comprised of plural flat tubes and plural corrugated fins, stacked alternately and the ends of the tubes are inserted into pipe-shape tanks. The flat surfaces of the tubes are configured to be parallel with an airflow direction. The refrigerant is introduced inside from the tank, flowed through the tubes while carrying out heat exchange with heat transferred to the core and discharged outside from the tank. As the refrigerant for the refrigeration cycle, a fluorocarbon refrigerant including a substitute fluorocarbon has been used extensively but it now tends to be replaced with CO As to the heat exchanger for the refrigeration cycle, improvements of heat exchange efficiency of the refrigerant, miniaturization, weight reduction, facilitation of manufacturing and saving of mounting space are important objects. Especially, a supercritical refrigeration cycle having a pressure on the high-pressure side exceeding the critical point of the refrigerant requires very high compressive strength as compared with the refrigeration cycle using the refrigerant of fluorocarbons, and the heat exchanger used therefor is required to secure pressure resistance and rationalized furthermore. For example, the heat exchanger for the supercritical refrigeration cycle needs to reduce the tubes and the tanks in volume and to increase the wall thickness in order to secure the pressure resistance. Here, when the tanks are made thick, there is a disadvantage that the width of the tubes to be inserted into the tanks must be made extremely small with respect to the outer diameter of the tanks. In other words, the tank having a large thickness has a large difference between the outer diameter and the inner diameter, and has disadvantages that the width of the tube to the outer diameter of the tank is extremely small to insert the ends of the tube having a prescribed width along the longitudinal direction, resulting in unsatisfactory width of the core with respect to mounting space of the heat exchanger. The present invention has been achieved under the circumstances described above and an object of the present invention is to provides a heat exchanger configured more rationally. The invention described in Claim 1 of the application relates to flat tubes which are used for a heat exchanger to carry out heat exchange of a refrigerant and to flow the refrigerant, wherein the heat exchanger is provided with a core, which has the tubes and corrugated fins laminated, and tanks provided with slots for insertion of the ends of the tubes, and carries out the heat exchange of the refrigerant by flowing air to the core and transferring heat to the core, the core is configured to have the flat surfaces of the tubes in parallel with the airflow direction, and the tubes have the width direction of their ends twisted by 90° with respect to the airflow direction. with the tubes for the heat exchanger of the invention, a heat exchanger configured rationally can be obtained. Flat tubes which are used for a heat exchanger to carry out heat exchange of a refrigerant and to flow the refrigerant, wherein:  The heat exchanger tubes according to Claim 1, wherein the heat exchanger is used for a refrigeration cycle which circulates the refrigerant, and the refrigeration cycle has a pressure on a high pressure side exceeding the critical point of the refrigerant. A heat exchanger which is provided with a core having lamination of flat tubes for flowing a refrigerant and corrugated fins, and tanks provided with slots for insertion of the ends of the tubes, and carries out heat exchange of the refrigerant by flowing air to the core and transferring heat to the core, wherein:  The heat exchanger according to Claim 3, wherein the tanks have an inner diameter smaller than the width of the tubes. The heat exchanger according to Claim 3 or 4, wherein the plural slots are arranged in a row along the longitudinal direction of the tanks, and the tubes are determined to have a width smaller than intervals between the arranged tubes. The heat exchanger according to Claim 5, wherein it is assumed that the interval between the arranged tubes is P and the width of the tubes is T, then they have relationships P=(6 to 12) mm and T=P · (0.95 to 0.80). The heat exchanger according to any of Claims 3 to 6, wherein the heat exchanger comprises a plurality of cores overlaid in the airflow direction. The heat exchanger according to Claim 7, wherein:  The heat exchanger according to Claim 8, wherein the first tank and the third tank are displaced in a direction orthogonal to the airflow direction, and the inlet and the outlet are oriented toward the windward side or the downwind side of the airflow direction. The heat exchanger according to any of Claims 3 to 9, wherein the fins are determined to have a width larger than that of the tubes. The heat exchanger according to any of Claims 3 to 10, wherein the tanks are cylindrical and configured by assembling a first member which is semitubular, a second member on which the slots are arranged in a row and a closing member for closing its ends. The heat exchanger according to Claim 11, wherein the tanks each is configured by assembling the first member, a plurality of the second members, a spacer for connecting the plurality of second members and the closing member. The heat exchanger according to Claim 11 or 12, wherein the closing member is provided with fitting portions for fitting the second member. The heat exchanger according to any of Claims 11 to 13, wherein the first member is provided with caulking parts, and the first member and the second member are fixed by caulking the caulking parts. The heat exchanger according to Claim 14, wherein the caulking parts are caulked to fix the first member, the second member and the closing member. The heat exchanger according to any of Claims 11 to 15, wherein the ends of the tubes are inserted into the slots, then the first member and the second member are assembled. The heat exchanger according to any of Claims 11 to 15, wherein the first member and the second member are assembled, then the ends of the tubes are inserted into the slots. The heat exchanger according to any of Claims 3 to 17, wherein the ends of the tubes are bent with respect to the longitudinal direction of the tubes. The heat exchanger according to Claim 18, wherein the ends of the tubes are bent before they are inserted into the slots. The heat exchanger according to Claim 18, wherein the ends of the tubes are bent after they are inserted into the slots. The heat exchanger according to any of Claims 3 to 20, wherein the heat exchanger is used for a refrigeration cycle which circulates the refrigerant, and the refrigeration cycle has a pressure on a high-pressure side exceeding the critical point of the refrigerant. A heat exchanger for a refrigeration cycle having a pressure on a high-pressure side exceeding the critical point of a refrigerant, which is provided with a core comprised of lamination of flat tubes for flowing the refrigerant and corrugated fins, and tanks on which slots for insertion of the ends of the tubes are formed, and carries out heat exchange of the refrigerant by flowing air to the core and transferring heat to the core, wherein:  <seperator>EP-1270253-A2<id_sep>classC09class sectionBsection subclassB41Jsubclass subgroupB41M5slash52subgroup groupC09D11slash00group sectionCsection groupB41M5slash00group subgroupB41M5slash50subgroup subgroupB41J2slash01subgroup subclassB41Msubclass classB41class subclassC09Dsubclass Ink jet printing method An ink jet printing method, having the steps of: A) providing an ink jet printer that is responsive to digital data signals; B) loading the printer with an ink-receiving element having a support having thereon a continuous, coextensive, non-porous, swellable, ink-receiving layer of a hydrophilic polymer which is capable of absorbing and retaining an ink; C) loading the printer with an ink jet ink composition of water, a humectant, a pigment and particles of a water-dispersible polymer; and D) printing on the ink-receiving layer using the ink jet ink in response to the digital data signals. This invention relates to an ink jet printing method employing an ink composition containing water-dispersible polymers. Ink jet printing is a non-impact method for producing images by the deposition of ink droplets on a substrate (paper, transparent film, fabric, etc.) in response to digital signals. Ink jet printers have found broad applications across markets ranging from industrial labeling to short run printing to desktop document and pictorial imaging. In ink jet recording processes, it is necessary that the inks being used meet various performance requirements. Such performance requirements are generally more stringent than those for other liquid ink applications, such as for writing instruments (e.g., a fountain pen, felt pen, etc.). In particular, the following conditions are generally required for inks utilized in ink jet printing processes: The inks used in various ink jet printers can be classified as either dye-based or pigment-based. A dye is a colorant which is molecularly dispersed or solvated by a carrier medium. The carrier medium can be a liquid or a solid at room temperature. A commonly used carrier medium is water or a mixture of water and organic cosolvents. Each individual dye molecule is surrounded by molecules of the carrier medium. In dye-based inks, no particles are observable under the microscope. Although there have been many recent advances in the art of dye-based ink jet inks, such inks still suffer from deficiencies such as low optical densities on plain paper and poor lightfastness. When water is used as the carrier medium, such inks also generally suffer from poor waterfastness. Pigment-based inks have been gaining in popularity as a means of addressing these limitations. In pigment-based inks, the colorant exists as discrete particles. These pigment particles are usually treated with addenda known as dispersants or stabilizers which serve to keep the pigment particles from agglomerating and/or settling out. Pigment-based inks suffer from a different set of deficiencies than dye-based inks. One deficiency is that pigment-based inks interact differently with specially coated papers and films, such as transparent films used for overhead projection and glossy papers and opaque white films used for high quality graphics and pictorial output. In particular, it has been observed that pigment-based inks produce imaged areas that are entirely on the surface of coated papers and films which results in images that have poor dry and wet adhesion properties and can be easily smudged. Scratch mark smudges are more visible on high gloss receivers. There is a need to provide a pigmented ink composition which can be used in printing images on the surface of an ink jet receiving element which have improved durability and smudging resistance. Ozone is generally present in the air at sea level at a concentration of 10 to 50 parts per billion. Only under certain conditions does the ozone concentration exceed these levels. However, even at low ozone concentrations, dyes and pigments such as ink jet dyes and pigments can be very sensitive and fade significantly. U.S. Patent 5,716,436 and JP 2000-290553 disclose the use of water-dispersible polymers in ink jet inks which are printed onto plain paper. However, images printed with these inks have low optical densities, low gloss and poor image quality. An ink jet printing method, comprising the steps of:  The method of Claim 1 wherein said water-dispersible polymer comprises a polyester, a polyurethane or a polyacrylate. The method of Claim 1 wherein said hydrophilic polymer is poly(vinyl alcohol), hydroxypropyl cellulose, carboxymethyl cellulose, hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose, a poly(alkylene oxide), poly(vinyl pyrrolidinone), or copolymers thereof, or gelatin. The method of Claim 1 wherein said water-dispersible polymer comprises a polyester ionomer. The method of Claim 4 wherein said polyester ionomer has the following general formula:     wherein:  The method of Claim 1 wherein said particles of said water-dispersible polymer have an average diameter of less than 0.25 µm. The method of Claim 1 wherein said particles of said water-dispersible polymer comprises from 0.1% to 10% by weight of said ink. The method of Claim 1 wherein said particles of said water-dispersible polymer comprises from 0.5% to 5% by weight of said ink. The method of Claim 1 wherein said pigment is C.I. Pigment Blue 15:3, C.I. Pigment Red 122, C.I. Pigment Yellow 155, C.I. Pigment Yellow 74, bis(phthalocyanylalumino)tetraphenyldisiloxane or C.I. Pigment Black 7. The method of Claim 1 wherein the surface of said ink-receiving element has a 20° specular gloss of from 5 to 100. <seperator>EP-1500684-A1<id_sep>sectionCsection subclassC08Lsubclass groupC08L77slash00group groupC08L21slash00group subgroupC08L77slash12subgroup classC08class Antistatic elastomer compositions The present invention relates to antistatic elastomer compositions and more precisely to a composition comprising an elastomer (A) and a copolymer (B) having polyamide blocks and polyether blocks comprising essentially ethylene oxide -(C [ The present invention relates to antistatic elastomer compositions and more precisely to a composition comprising an elastomer (A) and a copolymer (B) having polyamide blocks and polyether blocks comprising essentially ethylene oxide -(C The aim is to give the elastomer (A) antistatic properties. [ Patent Application The object of the present invention is to provide an elastomer (A) with permanent antistatic properties. The compositions of the invention are generally prepared by melt-blending (A) and (B) in single-screw or twin-screw extruders, Buss® mixers, kneaders or any equivalent device used in elastomers or thermoplastics technology. The blend of (A) and (B) may then either be cooled and recovered in the form of granules, rods or blocks, or moulded, injection-moulded or extruded directly in order to make various articles. The granules, rods or blocks may be melted subsequently in order to manufacture, as above, various articles by moulding, injection-moulding or extrusion. Advantageously, the above various articles are then crosslinked (vulcanized) by heating them to a temperature of, for example, around 150 to 200°C. The crosslinking agents may be introduced during the blending of (A) and (B) or may already be contained in (A). It is recommended that, when melt-blending (A) and (B) and crosslinking agents, no (or essentially no) crosslinking takes place. It has been found that it is particularly advantageous to use a copolymer (B) having a low melting point. The prior art does not disclose such systems. [ The present invention relates to antistatic elastomer compositions and more precisely to a composition comprising an elastomer (A) and a copolymer (B) having polyamide blocks and polyether blocks comprising essentially ethylene oxide -(C [ As regards the elastomer (A), These elastomers or blends of elastomers, once they have been vulcanized, have a compression set (CS) at 100°C of less than 50%, generally between 5% and 40% and preferably less than 30%. It is also possible to define elastomers as materials which, once they have been vulcanized, may be elongated to twice their initial length at room temperature, held in this manner for 5 minutes and return to within 10% of their initial length (see in particular Kirk-Othmer, Among these elastomers, mention may be made of natural rubber, polyisoprene with a high content of cis double bonds, a polymerized emulsion based on styrene/butadiene copolymer, a polybutadiene with a high content of cis double bonds obtained by nickel, cobalt, titanium or neodymium catalysis, a halogenated ethylene/propylene/diene terpolymer, a halogenated butyl rubber, a styrene/butadiene block copolymer, a styrene/isopropene block copolymer, halogenated products of the above polymers, an acrylonitrile/butadiene copolymer, an acrylic elastomer, a fluoroelastomer, chloroprene and epichlorohydrin rubbers. The elastomer may be functionalized. As regards functionalized elastomers, this function is advantageously a carboxylic acid or carboxylic acid anhydride function. When the elastomers mentioned above comprise no carboxylic acid radicals or anhydride radicals deriving from the said acids (which is the case for most of them), the said radicals will be provided by grafting the abovementioned elastomers in a known manner or by blends of elastomers, for example with elastomers containing acrylic units such as acrylic acid. The aforementioned vulcanizable elastomers preferably have a weight content of carboxylic acid or dicarboxylic acid anhydride radicals of between 0.3% and 10% relative to the said elastomers. Antistatic elastomer compositions comprising an elastomer (A) and a copolymer (B) having polyamide blocks and polyether blocks comprising essentially ethylene oxide -(C2H4-O)- units, the copolymer (B) having a melting point of between 60 and 150°C. Compositions according to Claim 1, in which the polyamide blocks result from the condensation of one or more alpha,omega-aminocarboxylic acids and/or of one or more lactams having from 6 to 12 carbon atoms, optionally in the presence of a dicarboxylic acid or of a diamine, and have a mass Mn of 400 to 1000. Compositions according to Claim 2, in which the polyamide blocks are formed from at least two lactams in proportions by weight that do not differ by more than 10 to 20%. Compositions according to Claim 3, in which the polyamide blocks are formed from at least two lactams in proportions by weight that do not differ by more than 5 to 10%. Compositions according to Claim 2, in which the polyamide blocks are formed from at least three lactams in proportions by weight that do not differ by more than 10 to 20%. Compositions according to Claim 5, in which the polyamide blocks are formed from at least three lactams in proportions by weight that do not differ by more than 5 to 10%. Compositions according to Claim 1, in which the polyamide blocks of the copolymer (B) are copolyamides resulting from the condensation of at least one alpha,omega-aminocarboxylic acid (or a lactam), at least one diamine and at least one dicarboxylic acid. Compositions according to Claim 1, in which the polyamide blocks result from the condensation of at least two alpha,omega-aminocarboxylic acids or of at least two lactams having from 6 to 12 carbon atoms or of a lactam and of an aminocarboxylic acid not having the same number of carbon atoms, optionally in the presence of a chain stopper. Compositions according to any one of the preceding claims, in which the polyether blocks represent 5 to 85% of (B) by weight. Compositions according to Claim 9, in which the proportion of polyether blocks in these copolymers having polyamide blocks and polyether blocks is from 10 to 70% by weight of the copolymer. Compositions according to Claim 10, in which the proportion of polyether blocks in these copolymers having polyamide blocks and polyether blocks is from 35 to 60% by weight of the copolymer. Compositions according to any one of Claims 1 to 6, in which the proportion by mass of the polyether blocks is between 40 and 60% for 60 to 40% of the polyamide blocks, respectively. Compositions according to any one of the preceding claims, in which the proportions of (A) and (B) vary from 2 to 40 parts of (B) for 98 to 60 parts of (A). Compositions according to Claim 13, in which the proportions of (A) and (B) vary from 2 to 20 parts of (B) for 98 to 80 parts of (A). <seperator>EP-1557330-A2<id_sep>subgroupB60T7slash04subgroup sectionBsection subclassB60Tsubclass subgroupB60R21slash09subgroup subgroupB60T7slash06subgroup subclassB60Rsubclass subgroupB60R21slash02subgroup classB60class Pedal with an anti-collision safety mechanism "Pedal with an anti-collision safety mechanism for a vehicle, said pedal (1) pivoting around a shaft (2) connected to a support part (3), and the safety mechanism comprising means that move the shaft (2) towards the driver in the event of a head-on collision as a result of the action of a substantially deformation-resistant part (4) of the vehicle. The means that move the shaft (2) comprise a lever (5) so that, in the event of a head-on collision, the substantially deformation-resistant part (4) acts on the lever (5) and said lever (5) causes the shaft to move (2) so that the shaft (2) becomes detached from the support part (3)."  The present invention relates to pedals for vehicles and more specifically to pedals comprising anti-collision safety mechanisms. Pedals for vehicles with diverse safety mechanisms activated only in the event of a head-on collision are already known. These mechanisms must safeguard the integrity of the lower extremities of the driver of the vehicle. In order to achieve this, in the event of a collision the pedal must be prevented from moving towards the driver at a magnitude or a speed that is dangerous. With regard to pedals, in a potentially harmful head-on collision the wall to which the pedals are connected is deformed thus pushing the pedal support structure and the pedals themselves against the driver. In such a situation, the safety mechanism must be activated to prevent the pedals impacting against the lower extremities of the driver. Other safety mechanisms are based on the distance between the wall where the pedals are secured and a part of the vehicle considered to be non-deformable in the accident. In the event of a head-on collision said wall is moved, thus reducing the distance between the wall and the deformation-resistant part. In such cases a mechanism is activated that prevents the pedals from transmitting the energy of the impact to the lower extremities of the driver. There are various means of achieving this such as breaking the turning shaft on the pedal, breaking the drive rod to the servo brake or clutch cylinder or forcing the pedal to make a negative movement. EP 1 153 805 A2 describes a safety mechanism for pedals in which the pedal pivots around a shaft connected to a support part. The ends of the shaft are housed in two guides included in the support part and said ends are immobilised in the guides by a fastening element. In the event of a head-on collision, said fastening element is released by the action of a deformation-resistant part of the vehicle with the ends of the shaft moving along the guides, thus causing the lower end of the pedal to move back in relation to the driver. WO 03/045750 A1 discloses a pedal assembly mechanism in which the pedal also pivots around a shaft connected to a support part. The ends of the shaft are housed in two guides included in the support part. The mechanism includes a lever that acts on the shaft in the event of a head-on collision and moves it along the guides to a secondary position in which the end of the pedal moves back in relation to the driver. In the normal operating position it is the lever itself, along with the additional elements, that holds the shaft in position. The object of the invention is to provide a pedal for vehicles that comprises a safety mechanism preventing said pedal from injuring the lower extremities of the driver in the event of a head-on collision, improving some of the features of pedals of the prior art. The pedal with a safety mechanism of the invention pivots around a shaft connected to a support part, with said support part linked to a wall separating the passenger compartment from the engine. The safety mechanism comprises means that move the shaft on the pedal towards the driver in the event of a head-on collision as a result of the action of a substantially deformation-resistant part of the vehicle. Pedal with an anti-collision safety mechanism for a vehicle, said pedal (1) pivoting around a shaft (2) connected to a support part (3), and the safety mechanism comprising means that move the shaft (2) towards the driver in the event of a head-on collision as a result of the action of a substantially deformation-resistant part (4) of the vehicle, characterised in that the means that move the shaft (2) comprise a lever (5) so that, in the event of a head-on collision, the substantially deformation-resistant part (4) acts on the lever (5) and said lever (5) causes the shaft to move (2) so that the shaft (2) becomes detached from the support part (3). Pedal with a safety mechanism according to claim 1, wherein the means that move the shaft (2) comprise, in addition to the lever (5), a sliding part (6) so that, in the event of a head-on collision, the substantially deformation-resistant part (4) acts on the lever (5) with said lever (5) acting on the sliding part (6) and said sliding part (6) pushing the lever (2) of the pedal (1), thus causing said shaft (2) to become detached from the support part (3). Pedal with a safety mechanism according to claim 2, wherein the safety mechanism comprises fastening means (7) connected to the support part (3) and which are used to fasten the shaft (2), with said fastening means (7) being detached in the event of a head-on collision by the action of the sliding part (6). Pedal with a safety mechanism according to claim 3, wherein the fastening means (7) comprise a part (8) that is clipped laterally to the support part (3) on each side of the shaft (2). Pedal with a safety mechanism according to claim 4, wherein each part (8) comprises at least one projection (9) upon which the sliding part (6) acts, pushing said projection (9) and unclipping the part (8) from the support part (3). Pedal with a safety mechanism according to claim 5, wherein the projection (9) on each part (8) comprises a slope (10), and the sliding part (6) also comprises a slope (11) facing each slope (10), so that each slope (11) on the sliding part (6) is supported on the slope (10) on the corresponding part (8), forcing the slopes (11) against the slopes (10) while the sliding part (6) moves, thus unclipping the parts (8). Pedal with a safety mechanism according to claims 4 to 6, wherein the fastening means (7) also comprise a wire (12) on either side of the shaft (2), with said wire (12) acting as an additional element fastening the part (8) to the support part (3). Pedal with a safety mechanism according to claims 1 or 2, wherein the shaft (2) comprises retractable lateral prolongations (2a,2b), with both of said lateral prolongations (2a,2b) being housed in two holes located on the support part (3), the sliding part (6) retracting said lateral prolongations (2a, 2b) in the event of a head-on collision. Pedal with safety mechanism according to claim 8, wherein the shaft (2) comprises an axial (20) orifice, with the lateral prolongations (2a,2b) partially housed in said orifice (20), with the shaft (2) also comprising a spring (21) inside the orifice (20) located between both lateral prolongations (2a,2b). Pedal with safety mechanism according to claim 9, wherein the lateral prolongations (2a,2b) comprise respective slopes (22a,22b), and the sliding part (6) comprises two lateral arms (6a,6b) comprising respective slopes (66a,66b) facing the slopes (22a,22b) on the lateral prolongations (2a,2b) respectively, so that when the sliding part (6) is moved, the slopes (66a,66b) of the lateral arms (6a,6b) press on the slopes (22a,22b) of the lateral prolongations (2a,2b), thus retracting said lateral prolongations (2a,2b) and bringing about the detachment of the shaft (2) from the support part (3). Pedal with safety mechanism according to claims 9 or 10, wherein the lateral prolongations (22a,22b) comprise at least one projection (30) and the shaft (2) comprises at least one groove (31), with the axial movement of the lateral prolongations (22a,22b) being guided by said springs (30) and said groove (31). <seperator>EP-1460294-A2<id_sep>subgroupF04D19slash04subgroup subgroupF16C39slash06subgroup subclassF16Csubclass sectionFsection groupF04D19slash00group subgroupF16C32slash04subgroup classF16class classF04class groupF16C39slash00group subclassF04Dsubclass Magnetic bearing device and turbo molecular pump with the magnetic bearing device mounted thereto To provide a magnetic bearing device capable of lowering the  costs required for the manufacture, installation, or the like of  a turbo molecular pump by reducing the number of elements of an  amplifier circuit that drives, through excitation, electromagnets  as well as the number of wires of a cable that connects the each  electromagnet and the amplifier circuit to each other, and a turbo  molecular pump with the magnetic bearing device mounted thereto.  One end of an electromagnet coil 151 is connected to a common node  R. Also, the other end thereof is connected to an amplifier circuit  410 composed of one transistor 411 and one diode 415. Further, the  one end of the electromagnet coil 151 is common with respect to  each of the electromagnets, and the common node R is controlled  by an intermediate-voltage maintaining circuit 451 so as to maintain  an intermediate voltage Vc.   The present invention relates to a magnetic bearing device and a turbo molecular pump with the magnetic bearing device mounted thereto. More specifically, the present invention relates to a magnetic bearing device capable of lowering the costs required for the manufacture, installation, or the like of a turbo molecular pump by reducing the number of elements of an amplifier circuit that drives, through excitation, electromagnets as well as the number of wires of a cable that connects the each electromagnet and the amplifier circuit to each other, and to a turbo molecular pump with the magnetic bearing device mounted thereto. With the development of electronics in recent years, demands for semiconductors for forming memories, integrated circuits, etc. are rapidly increasing. Those semiconductors are manufactured such that impurities are doped into a semiconductor substrate with a very high purity to impart electrical properties thereto, or semiconductor substrates with minute circuit patterns formed thereon are laminated. Those manufacturing steps must be performed in a chamber with a high vacuum state so as to avoid influences of dust etc. in the air. This chamber is generally evacuated by a vacuum pump. In particular, a turbo molecular pump is widely used since it entails little residual gas and is easy of maintenance. The semiconductor manufacturing process includes a number of steps in which various process gases are caused to act onto a semiconductor substrate, and the turbo molecular pump is used not only to evacuate the chamber but also to discharge those process gases from the chamber. Further, in equipment for an electron microscope etc., a turbo molecular pump is used to create a high vacuum state in the chamber of the electron microscope etc. in order to prevent refraction etc. of an electron beam caused by the presence of dust or the like. Such a turbo molecular pump is composed of a turbo molecular pump main body for evacuating the chamber of a semiconductor manufacturing apparatus, an electron microscope, or the like, and a control device for controlling the turbo molecular pump main body. FIG. 14 is a vertical sectional view of the turbo molecular pump main body. In Fig. 14, a turbo molecular pump main body 100 includes an outer cylinder 127 with an intake hole 101 formed on top thereof. Provided inside the outer cylinder 127 is a rotor 103 having in its periphery a plurality of rotor blades 102a, 102b, 102c, ... serving as turbine blades for sucking and discharging gas and formed radially in a number of stages. At the center of the rotor 103, a rotor shaft 113 is mounted with being supported in a levitating state in the air and controlled in position, for example, by a 5-axis control magnetic bearing. Upper radial electromagnet 104 includes four electromagnets arranged in pairs in X- and Y-axis and plus- and minus-side directions (although not shown in the drawing, those electromagnets are referred to as 104X-, 104Y+, and 104Y-, as necessary). Further, there is provided an upper radial sensor 107 constituted of four electromagnets arranged in close proximity to and in correspondence with the upper radial electromagnets 104. The upper radial sensor 107 detects radial displacement of the rotor 103, transmitting a detection signal to a control device 200 (shown in FIG. 15). A magnetic bearing device, characterized by comprising:   A magnetic bearing device, characterized by comprising:   A magnetic bearing device, characterized by comprising:   A magnetic bearing device according to Claim 3,  characterized in that the electromagnets (104, 105, 106A, 106B,  151) are divided into two groups, one excited and controlled by  the first excitation control means (401, 410, 610A, 610C, 810A,  810C) and the other excited and controlled by the second excitation  control means (401, 510, 610B, 810B), so that the amount of current  flowing from the first positive electrode to the second positive  electrode and the amount of current flowing from the second positive  electrode to the negative electrode are made equivalent to each  other.  A magnetic bearing device according to any one of Claims  1 to 4, characterized by further comprising:   A magnetic bearing device according to any one of Claims  1 to 5, characterized in that the plural electromagnets (104, 105,  106A, 106B, 151) are provided, and that     the each electromagnet (104, 105, 106A, 106B, 151) forms at  one end a common node (R), which is kept at the second voltage by  the second voltage generating/maintaining means (451, 460, 960).  A magnetic bearing device according to Claim 6,  characterized in that the second voltage generating/maintaining  means (451, 460, 960) includes:   A magnetic bearing device according to Claim 6,  characterized in that the second voltage generating/maintaining  means (451, 960) has a regulator circuit (957, 960) for adjusting  the second voltage, and that     a current flow is controlled so that a current flowing between    the regulator circuit (957, 960) and the one end of the each  electromagnet (104, 105, 106A, 106B, 151) does not exceed a given  limit.  A magnetic bearing device according to Claim 8,  characterized in that the limit is changed in accordance with an  error between the voltage of the one end of the each electromagnet  (104, 105, 106A, 106B, 151) and the voltage command value.  A magnetic bearing device according to Claim 8 or 9,  characterized in that:   A turbo molecular pump comprising the magnetic bearing  device according to any one of Claims 1 to 10, characterized in  that the rotor (103) has rotor blades (102) and a rotor shaft (113)  placed at the center of the rotor blades (102), and that     the position control means (104, 105, 106A, 106B, 151, 107,  108, 109) levitates the rotor shaft (113) by a magnetic force.  A turbo molecular pump according to Claim 11, characterized  by further comprising:   <seperator>EP-1391717-A1<id_sep>subclassC12Msubclass classC12class subgroupG01N33slash48subgroup sectionGsection classG01class sectionCsection subclassG01Nsubclass subgroupC12M1slash34subgroup subgroupG01N15slash14subgroup Sort block and liquid collection device for sorting flow cytometer A sort block for use with sorting flow analysis system. The sort block (20) includes a fin (146) extending into a sort stream in the sort block. Unsorted particles and aerosol are aspirated into the open top (148) of the fin. When error is detected, collection baskets (150,152) associated with the fin extend into the sort stream, block passage of particles to the collection containers and aspirate all droplets and aerosol to a waste or retrieval container. This sort block may include error monitors, such as a laser and camera combination, which monitor the flow stream and control the extension of the fin and basket type collector.  This invention relates generally to flow cytometer systems. More specifically, the invention relates to an improved system for particle collection to ensure safety through aerosol collection while preserving sort integrity by allowing interruption of particle flow to collection containers in instance of error. Flow cytometers are frequently used for the analysis of particles such as cells or beads in a number of different applications. The system allow for determination of both particle morphology and evaluation of particle features by detection of optical labels. The ability to distinguish multiple particles sizes and colors allows multiplex application providing higher capacity of this technology to obtain information from analyzed targets. Particle as used herein means any discrete target that may be optically analyzed, enumerated or sorted by a flow cytometer. This group includes cells, cell fragments and beads. In flow cytometer systems liquid containing target particles are fed from a container into a flow cell. The flow cells separates particles into a stream of individual particles that flow past a detection location. The particles may flow as individual droplets, but to reduce optical noise from refraction it is often preferred to have the particle stream flow through a cuvette where particles in the flow stream are analyzed. At the detection location a beam of focused illumination light (often a laser beam) illuminates the passing particles. Light scattered by the passing particles is detected by forward and side scatter detectors allowing determination of particle morphology. Light emitted from particles is collected and transmitted to detection optics. The particle (generally a cell or bead) may be labeled with one or more dye having a characteristic excitation and fluorescent emission wavelength. The dye may be conjugated to a binding agent (e.g. a monoclonal antibody) allowing targeting of specific antigen associated with the bead or cell. Light beam splitters separate the collected light into component wavelengths. These beams are directed through a bandpass filter to a light detector (e.g. photomultiplier tube). A specific wavelength associated with each dye is individually detected by one detector. The particle, after passing through a flow cell may pass into a sorting block for cell sorting operations. The flow cell nozzle breaks the flow stream into individual droplets, each droplet potentially containing one or more particle. If the particle is to be collected, the droplet is given a charge by a charging system. The droplets then fall in a stream past charged deflection plates in the sort block. Charged droplets will be deflected in one of two directions, depending on the charge applied to the droplet. The uncharged droplets are not deflected and may be collected as unsorted particles. The charged droplets are deflected and exit the sort block to collection containers. If the particles are cells, the sorted cells may then be used for additional procedures. By applying different levels of positive or negative charge a single sort procedure may sort the flow stream into four containers. There are a number of potential problems with cell sorters. First, if the sorter malfunctions particles could be sprayed as an aerosol through the sort block. The sorted particles in containers would be contaminated and need to be resorted. Such a malfunction could include a block in the flow cell resulting in the flow stream being aerosoled into a fine mist through the sort block. In addition, pressure changes could result in spraying from the sort nozzle. Alternatively, error in the charging system could also misdirect particles. This spraying malfunction would result in the contamination of sorted particles, potentially wasting hours of sorting time. The repeated sorting of cells may also negatively affect cell vitality and viability. A cell sort block comprising:  The sort block of claim 1, further comprising a circuitous intake path on a surface of said block body top allowing a gas to move from outside the sort block to inside the interior chamber. The sort block of claim 1, wherein the block face is clear. The sort block of claim 1, further including an o-ring between said block face and said block housing. The sort block of claim 1, wherein said fin is mounted on an actuator. The sort block of claim 5, further comprising a pair of collection baskets mounted flanking the fin, wherein said actuator may move said collection baskets between a first position and a second position wher.ein in said first position said baskets are positioned out of the flow stream and in a second position said baskets are positioned in the flow stream blocking flow of droplets through said open chamber bottom. The sort block of claim 6, further including an error sensor, wherein when an error is sensed by said error sensor the actuator is activated to move the fin and collection baskets to the second position, thereby collecting the flow stream emanating from the flow cell. The sort block of claim 6, wherein said baskets are affixed to said fin such that both the baskets and the fin move as a single unit. The sort block of claim 7, wherein said error sensor includes a laser directed into the flow stream and a camera monitoring the flow stream. The sort block of claim 9, further including at least one filter positioned in front of a lens of said camera. The sort block of claim 10, wherein said at least one filter comprises two filters disposed on a filter holder and said block further includes a filter actuator joined to said filter holder whereby actuation of said filter actuator moves a different filter in front of the camera. The sort block of claim 8, wherein said error sensor is one of a group consisting of a flow cell monitor, a pressure monitor and a computer error sensor. The sort block of claim 6, wherein the collection baskets each have a hole within the collection basket in communication with the aspiration source. The sort block of claim 13, wherein collected droplets are recovered by a recovery line feeding to a recovered liquid container. The sort block of claim 1, further comprising a collection container holder joined to said sort block body such that a plurality of containers placed in said container holders are held in the path of deflected droplets. The sort block of claim 15, further comprising an o-ring between the block housing and the collection container holder such that an air-tight seal between said block housing and said collection container holder is formed. The sort block of claim 1, further including a pivotable mount, said mount allowing the sort block to be mounted on a frame and pivot in relation to the position of a fixed flow cell. A device for use with a sorting flow cytometer, said cytometer having a flow cell for analysis of particles, a droplet generator producing droplets containing said particles, a charging system and deflection plates for sorting charged droplets in a flow stream, an enclosed block body having an interior chamber through which said flow stream of droplets pass and a plurality of at collection container for collecting deflected droplets at an end of said interior chamber, the device comprising:  The device of claim 18, wherein said device further includes an error sensor, wherein when said error sensor detects a flow cytometer error said actuator activates and moves said fin and basket to the extended position. The device of claim 19, wherein said sensor includes a light source illuminating the flow stream and a camera viewing droplets illuminated by said light source, wherein a change in droplet flow rate may be detected by said camera triggering actuator movement to said extended position. The device of claim 19, wherein said sensor is selected from a group comprising a pressure sensor, an power flow sensor, an optical sensor, and a computer error sensor. A flow cytometer cell sorting device comprising:  The device of claim 22, wherein said system for actuating said actuator includes an error sensor selected from the group comprising an optical error sensor, an electronics monitoring sensor, a pressure sensor and a computer error sensor. The device of claim 22, wherein said system for actuating said actuator includes a manually activated switch in which a user activates the actuator. The device of claim 22, further including a first o-ring between said block face and said block body and a second o-ring between said block body and said collection container holder. The device of claim 22 further including a recovery container associated with said aspiration source such that droplets and aerosol collected by said baskets and fin are drawn into said recovery container. The device of claim 22, wherein said block face is transparent. <seperator>EP-1783358-A1<id_sep>subclassF02Msubclass sectionFsection classF02class subgroupF02M61slash08subgroup subgroupF02M51slash06subgroup groupF02M61slash00group subgroupF02M61slash16subgroup Method of making a fuel injector A fuel injector for an internal combustion engine, the injector comprising an injector body (1) having a tip portion (2) defining at least one spray aperture (3); a pintle (5) extending within the tip portion (2), the pintle (5) having a head portion (6) engageable with a valve seat (4) to close the spray aperture (3), the pintle (5) being axially moveable between a closed position wherein the head portion (6) abuts the valve seat (5) and an open position wherein the head portion (6) is spaced from the valve seat (5); actuating means for selectively urging the pintle (5) towards its open position; guide means (12) being provided within the injector body (1) guiding the pintle (5) for axial movement between its closed and open positions; a fuel supply chamber (16) being defined within the injector body between the spray aperture (3) and the guide means (12), characterised in that the diameters of the guide means (12) and valve seat (4) are selected such that the pintle (5) is substantially pressure balanced.  The present invention relates to a fuel injector and in particular to a fuel injector for direct injection of gasoline into the combustion chamber of an internal combustion engine. Modern direct injection gasoline engines require fuel injectors to operate under extreme conditions of temperature and pressure and with high fuel pressures. Furthermore, the fuel injector must open and close very rapidly in order to provide multi-pulse injection cycles required for fuel efficiency and low emissions. Current high pressure direct injection fuel injectors either use inwardly opening valves (nozzle type or multi-hole director) in conjunction with solenoid actuation or outwardly opening valves using piezo-electric actuation. The outwardly opening piezo-electric actuated injector has demonstrated the highest potential for reducing fuel consumption, but the cost of the piezo-stack and driver is prohibitive for high volume applications. Known outwardly opening piezo-electric actuated fuel injectors generally comprise a valve body having a tip portion defining a spray aperture, a pintle or valve stem extending within the tip portion for axial movement between an extended and a retracted position, the pintle having an external head engageable with the spray aperture to close the spray aperture when the pintle is in its retracted position, a return spring biasing the pintle towards its retracted position, an actuating means in the form of a piezo-stack, acting upon the pintle to urge the pintle to its extended position when the piezo-stack is energised. The piezo-stack can provide a high opening force to overcome the strong return spring required to hold the valve closed and the high hydraulic forces generated during the high pressure operation of the injector, can provide rapid valve opening and achieves variable valve lift. However, piezo-electric fuel injectors are very costly to produce compared to solenoid actuated injectors and require complex and costly control systems for operation of the piezo-stack. By contrast, solenoid actuated fuel injectors are much cheaper to produce. However, known solenoid actuated fuel injectors cannot provide the same level of performance as piezo-electric actuated devices, mainly due to the lower opening force achievable by electromagnetic solenoid actuators and the slower rise of force over time. The low opening force of a solenoid renders such unsuitable for high pressure operating outwardly opening injectors because the solenoid cannot overcome the strong return spring required to prevent opening of the valve under the effect of the fuel pressure upstream of the valve, especially during start up when the fuel pressure is lower. An object of the present invention is to provide a solenoid actuated fuel injector that achieves the same performance as a piezo-electric actuated device. According to the present invention there is provided a fuel injector for an internal combustion engine, the injector comprising an injector body having a tip portion defining at least one spray aperture; a pintle extending within the tip portion, the pintle having a head portion engageable with a valve seat to close the spray aperture, the pintle being axially moveable between a closed position wherein the head portion abuts the valve seat and an open position wherein the head portion is spaced from the valve seat; actuating means for selectively urging the pintle towards its open position; guide means being provided within the injector body guiding the pintle for axial movement between its closed and open positions; a fuel supply chamber being defined within the injector body between the spray aperture and the guide means, wherein the dimensions of the guide means and valve seat and the portions of the pintle cooperating therewith are selected such that the pintle is substantially pressure balanced when the pintle is in its closed position or such that the pintle is subjected to a predetermined resultant opening or closing force when the pintle is in its closed position and pressurised fuel is supplied to the fuel supply chamber. A fuel injector for an internal combustion engine, the injector comprising an injector body (1) having a tip portion (2) defining at least one spray aperture (3); a pintle (5) extending within the tip portion (2), the pintle (5) having a head portion (6) engageable with a valve seat (4) to close the spray aperture (3), the pintle (5) being axially moveable between a closed position wherein the head portion (6) abuts the valve seat (5) and an open position wherein the head portion (6) is spaced from the valve seat (5); actuating means for selectively urging the pintle (5) towards its open position; guide means (12) being provided within the injector body (1) guiding the pintle (5) for axial movement between its closed and open positions; a fuel supply chamber (16) being defined within the injector body between the spray aperture (3) and the guide means (12),  A fuel injector as claimed in claim 1, wherein the inner diameter of the valve seat (4) is substantially equal to the inner diameter of the guide means (12). A fuel injector as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the pintle (5) moves from its closed to its open position in the direction of fuel flow. A fuel injector as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the actuating means comprises a solenoid . A fuel injector as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the guide means (12) divides the interior of the injector body into a high pressure side and a low pressure side, the high pressure side being adapted for connection to a supply of high pressure fuel and the low pressure side being adapted to connection to a suitable low pressure drain or fuel return. A fuel injector as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the pintle (5) is match ground with the guide means (12) to minimise leakage of high pressure fuel past the guide means (12). A fuel injector as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein seal means are provided between the guide means (12) and the pintle (5) to minimise leakage. A fuel injector as claimed in claim 7, wherein the seal comprises a PTFE seal to minimise friction. A fuel injector as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein dimensions and material of the pintle (5) are selected to obtain a predetermined extension or stretch of the pintle (5) as a function of fuel pressure within the fuel supply chamber (16) to provide an increase in the stroke of the pintle (5) between its closed and open positions in proportion to increasing pressure within the fuel supply chamber (16). A fuel injector as claimed in claim 8, wherein the dimensions and material of the pintle (5) are selected to obtain an increase in pintle stroke of approximately 10µm when the fuel pressure within the fuel supply chamber (16) increases from 50 bar to 200 bar. <seperator>EP-1262215-A2<id_sep>classA63class subgroupA63F13slash12subgroup sectionAsection subclassA63Fsubclass Server device for net game, net game management method, net game mamagement program, and recording medium which stores net game The present invention provides a server device for net games which can decide a winner out of a large number of users in a short time without wasting the time of the users. The lobby server 13 detects the winners of the normal pennant who are accessing using the client computers 2, decides the pairing in the games for the winners of the normal pennant whose access was detected, and sequentially decides the pairing in the following games for the winners of the normal pennant who won the games which were played according to the decided pairing in the games.  BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 1. Field of the Invention The present invention relates to a server device for net games (or network games) which is communicably connected to a plurality of terminal devices used by users via a network for managing a game played in a game space by the users using the terminal devices, a network game management method, a net game management program used for this device, and a recording medium which stores a net game management program. 2. Description of the Related Art Today as the Internet becomes popular and data transfer speeds increase, net games (or network games) using server devices for net games, and terminal devices used by users which are connected via the Internet, are commonly played. With such net games, various matching games, including sports and physical combat, are played. In the case of the above mentioned matching games, an unspecified number of general users can participate in a game as players since the Internet is used. When unknown users match in this way, the capability of an opponent in a game is unknown, so unexpectedness is added to the progress of a game, and some excitement can be added to a game compared with normal games which use a standalone game machine, where a game is played with the game machine as the opponent. However, when many players play the above mentioned matching game and a winner is determined, it is possible to decide a winner by tournament, for example, but to play a tournament, the schedule of each game must be decided, and the users to be an opponent must access according to the decided schedule. Net games, however, have a characteristic in that users can voluntarily participate in a game, so it frequently occurs that a user to be an opponent does not access at a predetermined time. Therefore a tournament often cannot run smoothly, and a winner cannot be decided. To play the above tournament, the second game cannot be played until the winner of the first game is decided. So if a user who became a winner after a short game time and a user who became a winner after a long game time play a game together, the user who became a winner after a short time must wait for a long time until the user to be an opponent is decided, and the time of the former user is wasted. Such a waste of time forces the user unnecessary expense when the charge to use a communication line is high, and is the cause of users not to become enthusiastic about net games. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION To solve the above problems, it is an object of the present invention to provide a server device for net games which can decide a winner out of many users in a short time without wasting the time of the user, and a net game management program, and a net game management method using this device. The present invention relates to a server device for net games, which is communicably connected to a plurality of terminal devices used by users via a network for managing a game played in a game space by the users using the terminal devices. The server device comprises detecting means for detecting users who are accessing using the terminal devices, and pairing deciding means for deciding a pairing in the games for users whose access was detected by the detecting means, and sequentially deciding a pairing in the next games for users who won the games played according to the decided pairing in the games. A server device for net games which is communicably connected to a plurality of terminal devices used by users via a network for managing a game played in a game space by the users using said terminal devices, the server device comprising:  The server device for net games according to Claim 1, wherein said pairing deciding means does not make the pairing in the games for users who select to suspend a game, out of the users whose access has been detected by said detecting means. The server device for net games according to Claim 1 or Claim 2, further comprising winner deciding means which, as the result of the games played according to the pairing in the games decided by said pairing deciding means, decides a user who won the largest number of games as a winner. The server device for net games according to one of Claims 1 to 3, further comprising:  A net game management method using a server device for net games which is communicably connected to a plurality of terminal devices used by users via a network for managing a game played in a game space by the users using said terminal devices, comprising:  A net game management program for causing a server device for net games, which is communicably connected to a plurality of terminal devices used by users via a network for managing a game played in a game space by the users using said terminal devices, to function as:  A recording medium which stores a net game management program, said net game management causing a server device for net games, which is communicably connected to a plurality of terminal devices used by users via a network for managing a game played in a game space by the users using said terminal devices, to function as: <seperator>EP-1264770-A1<id_sep>subclassB65Csubclass subgroupB65C9slash36subgroup subgroupB65C9slash08subgroup sectionBsection subgroupB65C9slash20subgroup subgroupB65C9slash26subgroup subgroupB65C9slash18subgroup groupB65C9slash00group classB65class groupB65C1slash00group subgroupB65C1slash02subgroup subgroupB65C9slash12subgroup subgroupB65C9slash14subgroup A unit for applying printed slips to packets in packaging machines Printed slips (3) are applied to packets (4) in a cigarette packer (1) by a unit comprising a first device (11) designed to feed slips (3) procured as single items and ordered in a stack, or a second device (12) designed to feed slips (3) obtainable as cuts made from a continuous strip (20); the two feed devices (11, 12) are conceived as mutually interchangeable accessory components that can be mounted in identical manner to a universal pickup and application device (9) installed permanently in the machine (1) and able to take up the slips (3) with equal facility from the first or the second feed device (11, 12) at a pickup station (10).  The present invention relates to a unit intended for the application of printed slips to packets in packaging machines. In particular, and to advantage, the invention finds application in machines for manufacturing packets of cigarettes, the field to which reference is made explicitly in the following specification albeit with no limitation implied, whilst the term "printed slip" is used to indicate a coupon, plain or folded, or a label or revenue stamp, of the kind typically associated with such packets. Printed slips of the type in question are in most cases either cut from a continuous strip or drawn from a stack of diecuts. The machines by which the slips are applied will obviously be equipped with different feed devices according to the manner in which the slips are procured. In the case of folded coupons, in particular, these can be cut from a continuous strip folded previously along one or more longitudinal crease lines and decoiled thus from a roll, or alternately, the folding operation can be carried out at the moment when the strip is decoiled and fed to the machine. Conventionally, a cigarette packer can be used both for the production of articles furnished with printed slips cut from a continuous strip, and for the production of articles furnished with slips procured in the form of diecuts. Obviously, given the high operating speeds and outputs of machines in use today, and the high profitability expected of them, the changeover from one type of production to another on the same packer will be economically justifiable only when the conversion of the machine from the one type of operation to the other can be accomplished in a relatively short time. The prior art embraces packer machines equipped with devices designed to feed printed slips either from a continuous strip or from the bottom of a vertical magazine, operating in conjunction with respective devices by which the slips are picked up and applied to the packets, wherein the changeover from one type of feed system to another is effected by replacing both the feed and the pickup devices. As a result, cigarette packers currently in use are rendered less adaptable to different types of slips and to their corresponding feed systems, and consequently less profitable. The object of the present invention is to provide a unit for the application of printed slips in packaging machines, from which the aforementioned drawbacks can be eliminated. The stated object is realized, according to the invention, in a unit for applying printed slips to packets in packaging machines, characterized in that it includes first means by which to feed slips procurable as single items ordered in a stack, or second means by which to feed slips obtainable as cuts made from a continuous strip, and a universal pickup and application device installed permanently in the machine, such as will take up the slips with equal facility from either the first or the second feed means at a pickup station. The invention will now be described in detail, by way of example, with the aid of the accompanying drawings, in which: A unit for applying printed slips to packets in packaging machines,characterized in that it comprises first means (11) by which to feed slips (3) procured as single items ordered in a stack, or second means (12) by which to feed slips (3) obtainable as cuts made from a continuous strip (20), and a universal pickup and application device (9) installed permanently in the machine (1) such as will take up the slips (3) with equal facility from either the first or the second feed means (11, 12) at a pickup station (10). A unit as in claim 1, wherein the first and second feed means (11, 12) are mutually interchangeable. A unit as in claim 2, wherein first feed means (11) comprise a magazine (13) containing a plurality of slips (3) ordered in a stack aligned on a relative axis (14) substantially perpendicular to the pickup station (10). A unit as in claim 2, wherein second feed means (12) comprise units (19; 22; 26) by means of which respectively to decoil, feed and cut a continuous strip (20), of which the feed unit (22) is designed to index the continuous strip (20), at least when in the neighbourhood of the pickup station (10), through predetermined steps and in a direction (D) coinciding with a plane (24) disposed parallel and in close proximity to a reference plane (25) of the pickup station (10). A unit as in claim 1, wherein the pickup and application device (9) includes at least one pickup assembly (31) capable of movement between the pickup station (10) and a release position (39), generated according to a previously determined law of motion and described about an axis (37) lying parallel to a reference plane (25) of the pickup station (10). A unit as in claim 5, wherein the pickup and application device (9) comprises an application assembly (40) operating in conjunction with the pickup assembly (31), rotatable about a respective axis (42) extending parallel to the axis (37) of rotation of the pickup assembly (31) and capable of movement thus between the release position (39) and a position (43) at which a slip (3) is applied to a respective packet (4). A unit as in claim 5, wherein the pickup assembly (31) comprises a pickup mechanism (32) caused by the law of motion governing the movement of the selfsame assembly (31) to roll tangentially to a reference plane (25) of the pickup station (10) during the step of picking up the slips (3) from the station (10) and thereafter to advance along a predetermined path (P1), passing from the pickup station (10) to the release position (39). A unit as in claim 7, wherein the pickup mechanism (32) comprises at least one aspirating sector (33) affording a pickup surface (33a) of arcuate profile positioned to roll against the reference plane (25) of the pickup station (10) and furnished with a plurality of holes (59) connectable to a source of negative pressure. A unit as in claim 7, wherein the pickup mechanism (32) is furnished with at least one suction cup (38) connectable to a source of negative pressure and designed to attract a slip (3) occupying the reference plane (25) of the pickup station (10) by rolling against one face thereof. A unit as in claim 6, wherein the application assembly (40) comprises second pneumatic pickup mechanisms (44) equidistanced angularly about the respective axis (42) of rotation and operating in conjunction with a pickup mechanism (32) of the pickup assembly (31), by which the slips (3) are transferred along a predetermined path (P2) from the pickup assembly (31) to the packets (4). A unit as in claim 10, comprising gumming means (47) positioned along the transfer path (P2) in such a way as to apply an adhesive material to one surface of the slips (3). A unit as claim 10, wherein the second pickup mechanisms (44) are carried by a drum (41) rotatable about the axis (42) of the application assembly (40), mounted to respective shafts (51) rotatable in their turn about respective axes (51a) disposed transversely to the axis (42) of rotation of the drum (41) in order to change the orientation of the slips (3) during the rotation of the drum. A unit as in claims 1 to 11, wherein the pickup and application device (9) comprises first and second guiding and locating means (52, 53) serving to ensure the correct transfer of the slips (3). <seperator>EP-1231486-A1<id_sep>groupG02B3slash00group groupG02B13slash00group classH04class sectionHsection sectionGsection subclassH04Nsubclass subclassG02Bsubclass subgroupH04N1slash028subgroup subgroupH04N1slash04subgroup classG02class Rod lens array for optical imaging system An optical imaging system is provided that includes a rod lens array (2) and has the optimum refractive index distribution for achieving a high resolving power. The refractive index distribution of rod lenses (1) can be expressed by  The present invention relates to an optical imaging system used in an image transmission portion of, e.g., a facsimile device or a copier. More particularly, the present invention relates to an optical imaging system including a plurality of rod lenses arranged in an array. Optical imaging systems including a plurality of rod lenses with a refractive index distribution in the radial direction that are arranged in an array are widely used in the image transmission portion of, e.g., facsimile devices or copiers. The refractive index distribution of such rod lenses can be expressed, e.g., by Conventionally, the resolving power demanded from such a rod lens array called for an MTF (modulation transfer function) of at least 60% when a pattern of 4 - 6 line-pairs/mm (ca. 200 dpi - 300 dpi) was imaged. To meet this demand, it was sufficient to control only g or both g and h Recently, however, with the steadily rising quality of printers and scanners, there is a demand for rod lens arrays with a resolving power of at least 12 line-pairs/mm (ca. 600 dpi). To achieve a rod lens array having such a high resolving power, all the refractive index distribution coefficients, including h It is possible to determine the optimum refractive index distribution coefficients for correcting the spherical aberration on the optical axis of a single rod lens. However, in the case of a plurality of rod lenses arranged in an array, a change in the resolving power may be caused not only by the spherical aberration, field curvature and astigmatism of the individual lenses but also by the overlapping of images from neighboring lenses. The optimum refractive index distribution also changes depending on the brightness of the rod lenses. For example, when bright rod lenses having a large angular aperture are employed, the refractive index distribution coefficients for a small axial spherical aberration are very different from the refractive index distribution coefficients for a small field curvature. The best resolving power can be achieved by striking a balance between the two. An overlapping degree m is given by Consequently, to achieve a high resolving power, the refractive index distribution coefficients have to be determined separately in accordance with at least the brightness and the overlapping degree of each rod lens. Therefore, with the foregoing in mind, it is an object of the present invention to provide an optical imaging system including a plurality of rod lenses arranged in an array and having a refractive index distribution that is ideal for achieving a high resolving power. An optical imaging system according to a configuration of the present invention includes a rod lens array including a plurality of rod lenses having a refractive index distribution in the radial direction that are arranged in two rows with their optical axes in parallel, and a manuscript plane and an image plane that are located on the opposite sides of the rod lens array. The refractive index distribution of the rod lenses is expressed by According to this configuration, an optical imaging system can be provided that includes a plurality of rod lenses arranged in an array and has the optimum refractive index distribution for attaining a high resolving power of at least 12 line-pairs/mm (ca. 600 dpi) when the outer diameter of the lenses is 0.6 mm. An optical imaging system comprising:  The optical imaging system according to claim 1, wherein kA, kB and kC satisfy Eq. 3   kA2 + kB2 + kC2 ≤ 0.7. The optical imaging system according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the refractive index n0 on the optical axis (1a) of the rod lenses (1) is in a range of 1.4 ≤ n0 ≤ 1.8. The optical imaging system according to claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein a product g.r0 of the refractive index distribution coefficient g and a radius r0 of a portion of each rod lens (1) functioning as a lens is in a range of 0.04 ≤ g.r0 ≤ 0.27. The optical imaging system according to any preceding claim, wherein the refractive index distribution of the rod lenses (1) is expressed by Eq. 4   n(r)2 = n02.{1 - (g.r)2 + f(r)} where f(r) is a function of r, and the f(r) satisfies Eq. 5   h4A.(g.r)4 + h6A.(g.r)6 + h8A.(g.r)8 ≤ f(r) ≤ h4B.(g.r)4 + h6B.(g.r)6 + h8B.(g.r)8 for r in a range of 0 ≤ r ≤ r0 (r0: a radius of a portion of each rod lens functioning as a lens) with respect to two groups of refractive index distribution coefficients (n0, g, h4A, h6A, h8A) and (n0, g, h4B, h6B, h8B) that are in the ranges determined by Equation 2. The optical imaging system according to any preceding claim, wherein a radius r0 of a portion of each rod lens (1) functioning as a lens is in a range of 0.05 mm ≤ r0 ≤ 0.60 mm. The optical imaging system according to any preceding claim, wherein r0/R is in a range of 0.5 ≤ r0/R ≤ 1.0, where r0 is a radius of a portion of each rod lens (1) functioning as a lens and 2R is a distance between the optical axes (1a) of two neighboring rod lenses. The optical imaging system according to any preceding claim, wherein Z0/P is in a range of 0.5 ≤ Z0/P ≤ 1.0, where Z0 is a length of the rod lenses (1) and P = 2π/g is a one-pitch length of the rod lenses. The optical imaging system according to any preceding claim, wherein an overlapping degree m is in a range of 0.9 ≤ m ≤ 5.0, and the over lapping degree m is given by m = X0/2r0, where r0 is a radius of a portion of each rod lens (1) functioning as a lens and X0 is an image radius that the rod lens projects onto the image plane (4). The optical imaging system according to any preceding claim, wherein a parallel plane transparent substrate is arranged so that the manuscript plane (3) is located at a front focal position of the rod lens array (2). The optical imaging system according to claim 10, wherein the parallel plane transparent substrate (5) is in contact with a lens surface of the rod lens array (2). <seperator>EP-1325790-A2<id_sep>sectionBsection groupB23D49slash00group subgroupB23D51slash02subgroup subclassB23Dsubclass groupB23D51slash00group subgroupB23D51slash16subgroup subgroupB23D51slash10subgroup classB23class subgroupB23D49slash16subgroup Reciprocating saw A reciprocating saw (10) includes a carrier (16) operable to cooperate with a motor (12) to translate rotational movement of the motor (12) into reciprocal linear actuation of a saw blade (20). A carrier (16) is slidably disposed within the housing (14) and includes a first portion (24) adapted to receive a saw blade (20) and a second portion (26) having a slot (102) therethrough. A rotatable element is fixed for rotation about an output shaft (130) of the motor. A follower (134) operably interconnects the carrier (16) and the rotatable element wherein rotation of the rotatable element provides reciprocal linear motion of the carrier (16) whereby the follower (134) follows a reciprocal linear path within the slot (102).  The present invention relates to reciprocating saws and more particularly to a reciprocating saw arrangement operable to translate rotational movement of a power source into reciprocal linear actuation of a saw blade. Craftsman and builders have used reciprocating saws and jigsaws throughout the industry to perform various cutting operations. A conventional reciprocating saw or jigsaw generally consists of a housing having a motor, a drive mechanism for translating rotational motion of the motor into linear actuation of a carrier or drive shaft, and a saw blade releasably coupled to the drive shaft. Such conventional arrangements however present a few drawbacks which decrease usability and longevity of the tool. For example, during a cutting operation, woodchips or debris from the workpiece tend to collect around the clamping mechanism holding the saw to the tool. Furthermore, in some instances debris can be ingested into the drive mechanism of the saw. It would be desirable to provide a saw that created a positive pressure at the blade, clamping mechanism interface to inhibit debris from collecting in the area or travelling into the drive mechanism. In addition, conventional reciprocating saws generally include a handle extending at a 180 degree angle while jigsaws have a handle extending at 90 degrees. It would be an advantage to provide a handle greater than 90 and less than 180 degrees to allow for a comfortable grip of the tool for use in both jigsaw and reciprocating saw applications. Furthermore while conventional drive mechanisms associated with reciprocating saws are satisfactory for their intended purpose, a need exists to provide simpler, more durable alternatives that provide the desired function while advancing the art. It is a general object of the present invention to provide a reciprocating saw including a carrier operable to cooperate with a power source to translate rotational movement of the power source into reciprocal linear actuation of a saw blade. In one form, the present invention provides a reciprocating saw having a housing containing a motor. A carrier is slidably disposed within the housing and includes a first portion adapted to receive a saw blade and a second portion having a slot therethrough. A rotatable element is fixed for rotation about an output shaft of the motor. A follower operably interconnects the carrier and the rotatable element. Rotation of the rotatable element provides reciprocal linear motion of the carrier. The follower follows a reciprocal linear path within the slot. In another form, the present invention provides a reciprocating saw including a housing containing a motor. The saw further includes a saw blade having a cutting edge, a mounting edge and a side surface, the side surface defining a first plane. A carrier member is included having a first portion including a base defining a second plane, the base is adapted to receive the saw blade wherein the first plane is parallel to the second plane. The carrier includes a second portion in communication with the motor. The second portion includes a slot which defines a guide path. A rotatable element is fixed for rotation about an output shaft which extends from the motor. A follower operably interconnects the carrier and the rotatable element. Rotation of the rotatable element provides reciprocal linear motion of the carrier. The follower follows a reciprocal linear path within the guide path. A reciprocating saw comprising:  The reciprocating saw of claim 1, wherein said slot includes lateral walls extending from opposing edges thereof. The reciprocating saw of claim 2, wherein said lateral walls include a first and second pair of laterally opposed walls, said first pair of walls laterally offset from said second pair of walls by a first and second channel formed in said carrier member. The reciprocating saw of claim 3, wherein said channels are oriented whereby said output shaft extends therethrough as said follower follows said reciprocal linear path within said slot. The reciprocating saw of claim 4, wherein said follower includes a slider laterally extending in a first direction a width so as to slidably interfit between said first and second laterally opposed walls and in a second direction a width greater than said channels. The reciprocating saw of claim 5, wherein said follower further includes a roller coupled to said slider, said roller configured to rotatably interface said lateral walls as said follower follows said reciprocal linear path within said slot. The reciprocating saw of claim 6, wherein said housing further includes a fan operable to direct air through said second portion of said carrier to said first portion of said carrier. The reciprocating saw of claim 7, whereby said fan further directs air out of said housing through vents incorporated therein. The reciprocating saw of claim 1, wherein said reciprocating saw further includes a releasably attached base portion, said base portion including a first pair of lateral rails extending therefrom for slidably engaging a second pair of lateral walls incorporated on said housing. The reciprocating saw of claim 10, wherein one of said housing and said base further includes a latch for selectively coupling said base to said housing. A reciprocating saw comprising:  The reciprocating saw of claim 11, wherein said lateral wall sections include a first and second pair of laterally opposed walls, said first pair of walls laterally offset from said second pair of walls by a first and second channel formed in said carrier member. The reciprocating saw of claim 12, wherein said channels are oriented whereby said output shaft extends therethrough as said follower follows said reciprocal linear path within said slot. The reciprocating saw of claim 11, wherein said follower includes a slider rotatably coupled thereto, said slider laterally extending in a first direction defining a width so as to slidably interfit between said first and second laterally opposed walls and in a second direction a width greater than said channels. The reciprocating saw of claim 14, wherein said follower further includes a roller coupled to said slider, said roller configured to rotatably interface said lateral walls as said follower follows said reciprocal linear pattern within said guide path. The reciprocating saw of claim 11, wherein said housing further includes a fan operable to direct air through said second portion of said carrier to said first portion of said carrier. The reciprocating saw of claim 16, whereby said fan further directs air out of said housing through vents incorporated therein. The reciprocating saw of claim 11, wherein said reciprocating saw further includes a removable base, said removable base including a first pair of lateral rails extending therefrom for slidably engaging a second pair of lateral walls incorporated on said housing. The reciprocating saw of claim 18, wherein one of said housing and said removable base further includes a latch for selectively coupling said removable base to said housing. A reciprocating saw comprising:  A reciprocating saw comprising:  The reciprocating saw of claim 21, wherein said latch is biased into an engaged position against a stop extending from said base. The reciprocating saw of claim 22, wherein said latch is movable between said engaged position and a disengaged position. <seperator>EP-1787587-A1<id_sep>subgroupA61B8slash13subgroup sectionAsection subclassA61Bsubclass classA61class Ultrasound probe diagnosing apparatus, ultrasound diagnostic apparatus, and ultrasound probe diagnosing method An ultrasound probe diagnosing apparatus (100) which diagnoses an ultrasound probe (200) having an array of a plurality of ultrasound transducing elements (202a) on the basis of how the ultrasound probe (200) receives reflected ultrasound waves from a test object placed to face the ultrasound probe (200), includes a part (111) which detects a posture of the ultrasound probe (200) with respect to the test object by comparing reflected ultrasound signals received by at least some of the plurality of ultrasound transducing elements (202a), and a presenting part (110) which presents information based on the detected posture.  The present invention relates to an ultrasound probe diagnosing apparatus and ultrasound probe diagnosing method which diagnose an ultrasound probe used by an ultrasound diagnostic apparatus, and an ultrasound diagnostic apparatus having a function of diagnosing an ultrasound probe. A technique of diagnosing an ultrasound probe on the basis of signals received by the ultrasound probe has been known through, for example, Jpn. Pat. Appln. KOKAI Publication A technique of detecting the transmission/reception characteristics of an ultrasound probe by using signals obtained by receiving ultrasound waves reflected by a test object like a reflector placed to face the ultrasound probe through the ultrasound probe has been know through, for example, Jpn. Pat. Appln. KOKAI Publication It has been difficult to efficiently diagnose an ultrasound probe by using these related arts. It has therefore been required to efficiently diagnose an ultrasound probe. According to a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided an ultrasound probe diagnosing apparatus which diagnoses an ultrasound probe having an array of a plurality of ultrasound transducing elements on the basis of how the ultrasound probe receives reflected ultrasound waves from a test object placed to face the ultrasound probe, comprising: According to a second aspect of the present invention, there is provided an ultrasound diagnostic apparatus which includes an ultrasound probe having an array of a plurality of ultrasound transducing elements, and obtains information for diagnosing a subject to be examined on the basis of reflected ultrasound waves received from the subject by the ultrasound probe, comprising: a part which is placed to face the ultrasound probe and detects a posture of the ultrasound probe with respect to a test object different from the subject by causing at least some of the plurality of ultrasound transducing elements to receive reflected ultrasound waves from the test object and comparing reflected ultrasound signals output from the ultrasound transducing elements with each other, and a presenting part which presents information based on the detected posture. According to a third aspect of the present invention, there is provided an ultrasound probe diagnosing method of diagnosing an ultrasound probe having an array of a plurality of ultrasound transducing elements on the basis of how the ultrasound probe receives reflected ultrasound waves from a test object placed to face the ultrasound probe, comprising: According to a fourth aspect of the present invention, there is provided an ultrasound probe diagnosing apparatus which diagnoses an ultrasound probe on the basis of how the ultrasound probe receives a reflected ultrasound wave from a test object placed to face the ultrasound probe, comprising: a setting part which variably sets a repetition period of ultrasound wave transmission/reception; a part which adds reflected ultrasound signals from the ultrasound probe in corresponding phases for the each set period; and a diagnosing part which diagnoses the ultrasound probe on the basis of the added signals. According to a fifth aspect of the present invention, there is provided an ultrasound probe diagnosing apparatus which diagnoses an ultrasound probe on the basis of how the ultrasound probe receives reflected ultrasound waves from a test object placed to face the ultrasound probe, comprising: a setting part which variably sets a transmission/reception period in repetitive ultrasound wave transmission/reception for each ultrasound wave transmission/reception; a part which adds reflected ultrasound signals from the ultrasound probe for the each set period while leading edges of the signals are matched with each other; and a diagnosing part which diagnoses the ultrasound probe on the basis of the added signals. An ultrasound probe diagnosing apparatus (700) which diagnoses an ultrasound probe (200), of a plurality of ultrasound probes (200), which is set as a diagnosis target,  An apparatus (700) according to claim 1,  An ultrasound probe diagnosing apparatus (700) which is configured to access a first database in which a first reference value concerning feature values corresponding to a plurality of ultrasound probes (200) is written and a second database in which a second reference value concerning variation degrees of the feature values is written, and diagnoses an ultrasound probe (200) set as a diagnosis target,  An apparatus (700) according to claim 3,  An apparatus (700) according to any one of claims 1 to 4,  An ultrasound probe diagnosing apparatus (700) which is configured to access a database in which reference values concerning at least two of an amplitude, center frequency, and bandwidth with respect to each of a plurality of ultrasound probes (200) are written, and diagnoses an ultrasound probe (200) set as a diagnosis target,  An apparatus (700) according to claim 6,  An ultrasound probe diagnosing apparatus (700) which is configured to access a first database and second database, and diagnoses an ultrasound probe (200), of a plurality of ultrasound probes (200), which is set as a diagnosis target,  An apparatus (700) according to claim 8,  An apparatus (700) according to claim 3 or 8, which is configured to access a third database indicating weighting information for each of said plurality of ultrasound probes (200), and  An apparatus (700) according to any one of claims 1, 3, 6, and 8, which is configured to access a third database indicating weighting information concerting a plurality of transducers of each of said plurality of ultrasound probes (200), and further comprises  An apparatus (700) according to claim 3 or 8, which is configured to access a third database indicating weighting information concerning a plurality of transducers of each of said plurality of ultrasound probes (200), and further comprises  An apparatus (700) according to any one of claims 1, 3, 6, and 8, which further comprises  An apparatus (700) according to claim 3 or 8, which further comprises  An apparatus (700) according to any one of claims 1, 3, 6, and 8,  An ultrasound diagnostic apparatus (700) in which one of a plurality of ultrasound probe (200)s is selectively mounted to obtain information for diagnosis on a subject to be examined on the basis of a reflected ultrasound wave received from the subject by the mounted ultrasound probe (200),  An ultrasound probe diagnosing apparatus (700) in which one of a plurality of ultrasound probes (200) is selectively mounted to obtain information for diagnosis on a subject to be examined on the basis of a reflected ultrasound wave received from the subject by the mounted ultrasound probe (200),  the ultrasound diagnostic apparatus (700) being configured to access a first database in which a first reference value concerning a feature value of each of said plurality of ultrasound probes (200) and to access a second database in which a second reference value concerning a variation degree of the feature value,  An ultrasound diagnostic apparatus (700) in which one of a plurality of ultrasound probes (200) is selectively mounted to obtain information for diagnosis on a subject to be examined on the basis of a reflected ultrasound wave received from the subject by the mounted ultrasound probe (200), and which is configured to access a database in which reference values concerning at least two of an amplitude, center frequency, and bandwidth with respect to each of said plurality of ultrasound probes (200) are written,  An ultrasound diagnostic apparatus (700) in which one of a plurality of ultrasound probes (200) is selectively mounted to obtain information for diagnosis on a subject to be examined on the basis of a reflected ultrasound wave received from the subject by the mounted ultrasound probe (200),  An apparatus (700) according to claim 17 or 19, which is configured to access a third database indicating weighting information for each of said plurality of ultrasound probes (200), and  An apparatus (700) according to any one of claims 16, 17, 18, and 19, which is configured to access a third database indicating weighting information concerting a plurality of transducers of each of said plurality of ultrasound probes (200), and further comprises  An apparatus (700) according to claim 17 or 19, which is configured to access a third database indicating weighting information concerning a plurality of transducers of each of said plurality of ultrasound probes (200), and further comprises  An apparatus (700) according to any one of claims 16, 17, 18, and 19, which further comprises  An apparatus (700) according to claim 17 or 19, which further comprises  An ultrasound probe diagnosing method of diagnosing an ultrasound probe (200), of a plurality of ultrasound probes (200), which is set as a diagnosis target,  An ultrasound probe diagnosing method of diagnosing an ultrasound probe (200) set as a diagnosis target by using a first database in which a first reference value concerning feature values corresponding to a plurality of ultrasound probes (200) is written and a second database in which a second reference value concerning variation degrees of the feature values is written,  An ultrasound probe diagnosing method of diagnosing an ultrasound probe (200) set as a diagnosis target by using a database in which reference values concerning at least two of an amplitude, center frequency, and bandwidth with respect to each of a plurality of (200) are written,  An ultrasound probe diagnosing method of diagnosing an ultrasound probe (200), of a plurality of ultrasound probes (200), which is set as a diagnosis target, by using a first database and second database,  A method according to claim 26 or 28,  A method according to any one of claims 25, 26, 27, and 28,  A method according to claim 26 or 28,  A method according to any one of claims 25, 26, 27, and 28,  A method according to claim 26 or 28,  <seperator>EP-1413262-A1<id_sep>subgroupA61F2slash82subgroup classA61class subgroupA61F2slash06subgroup subclassA61Fsubclass subgroupA61F2slash84subgroup subgroupA61F2slash04subgroup sectionAsection subgroupA61F2slash94subgroup Delivery catheter for a urethral stent A stent delivery system for the placement of non-expandable stents  (150) in the urethra is described. The delivery system (50) is generally  composed of a catheter (52) with a stent (150) mounted near the distal  end of the catheter (52). The stent (150) is held in place by a balloon  (35) or mechanical mechanism.   FIELD OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to stent delivery systems to facilitate the temporary relief of urinary retention caused by enlargement of the prostate gland or severe lower urinary tract symptoms. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The prostate gland surrounds the prostatic urethra, and enlargement of the prostate gland prevents passage of urine from the bladder. Enlargement of the prostate gland can result from the following etiologies: 1) benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH); 2) carcinoma of the prostrate; 3) prostatitis; 4) post-procedural edema; 5) prostatic trauma; as well as others. Prostatic enlargement, is a common affliction among men. Prostatic enlargement is uncomfortable because it makes urination difficult or impossible. The condition is also dangerous because it can lead to infection of the bladder and kidneys, and severe cases may lead to death. Lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS), also common among older men, comprise a variety of conditions which can also lead to urinary retention and other complications resulting from retention. Some of the conditions falling under LUTS diagnosis include an enlarged prostate, BPH, and bladder outlet obstruction. Prostatic enlargement can be treated with the implantation of a prostatic urethral stent. The stent serves to hold open the prostatic urethra to facilitate fluid flow during urination. A stent may be implanted, or delivered, as an interim solution to hold open the prostatic urethra while the patient awaits corrective treatment A stent may be implanted after thermal therapy or cryosurgery to keep the urethra open while post-treatment edema subsides. A stent may be implanted after radiation to keep the urethra open as the radiation effects on the prostatic tissue subside. Finally, a stent may be implanted as a primary treatment. There are many different types of urethral stents. Generally, they are tubular in shape, and may be composed of solid, tubes, coiled wire or ribbon, mesh, or braided filaments. Many stents are inserted, or delivered, into the urethra in a radially compressed form by a stent delivery system. After being properly positioned, these types of stents are radially expanded into their final shape, typically by thermal or mechanical means. There are also non-expandable stents that are inserted into the urethra in their final form by a stent delivery system. These stents have an advantage over expandable stents in that the final configuration of the stent is known at the time of stent insertion. During the first steps of the stent deployment process, the stent must be held in place on the stent delivery system during insertion. For expandable stents, this is typically accomplished by placing the stent inside a sheath, by crimping onto a catheter balloon, or by using a mechanical retainer or stopper. Non-expandable stents are held in place on the stent delivery system by means of flexible tether strings (see U.S. Patent No. 5,322,501 to Mahmud-Durrani) or a coiled wire fastening element (see U.S. Patent No. 5,098,374 to Orthel-Jacobsen, et al.). In the case of the Mahmud-Durrani delivery system, the stent is retained within the prostatic urethra by the same flexible tether strings, connected to a locating member. The locating member remains in the bladder as an anchoring means after the stent is delivered. A system for delivering a non-expandable stent into the prostatic urethra of  a patient, comprising a catheter; and a controllable retainer mounted to said catheter and  adapted for controllable radial expansion and contraction, wherein when said retainer is  contracted the stent is longitudinally movable along said catheter and when said retainer is  expanded longitudinal movement of the stent along said catheter is restricted.  The system according to Claim 1, wherein said retainer includes an  inflatable balloon.  The system according to Claim 2, wherein said catheter includes an interior  longitudinal lumen and a radial port communicating with said lumen, said balloon being  positioned over said port.  The system according to claim 1, wherein said retainer includes a pair of  mechanical retaining mechanisms spaced along said catheter so as to capture the stent  therebetween when said pair of mechanisms are radially expanded, each of said pair of  mechanism including a retention member controllably movable radially outward from said  catheter.  The system according to Claim 4, wherein said catheter includes an interior  longitudinal lumen; said retention member includes a deployment ramp extending into said  lumen; and said system further includes a rod insertable into said lumen to selectively  engage said deployment ramp and cause said retention member to be moved radially  outward from said catheter.  The system according to Claim 1, wherein said catheter includes a  longitudinal through-lumen adapted to receive a guide wire.  The system according to Claim 1, wherein said catheter includes a  longitudinal through-lumen adapted to receive visualization means.  The system according to Claim 1, wherein said catheter includes an interior  longitudinal lumen and a radial port distally beyond said retainer and communicating with  said lumen, said system further comprising a locating balloon positioned over said port, the  spacing between said locating balloon and said retainer being such that said locating  balloon can be inserted through the patient's urethra and into the patient's bladder and  inflated and such that, when said catheter is subsequently withdrawn along the urethra to a    position where said inflated balloon contacts the bladder neck, a stent retained on the  catheter by the retainer is properly positioned within the prostatic urethra.  A method of delivering a non-expandable stent into the prostatic urethra of  a patient using a stent delivery system having a catheter and a controllable retainer  mounted to said catheter and adapted for controllable radial expansion and contraction, the  method comprising the steps of:   The method according to Claim 9, wherein the stent delivery system further  includes a locating balloon mounted to said catheter distally beyond said retainer, and  wherein the step of inserting the stent delivery system includes the steps of:   <seperator>EP-1382738-A1<id_sep>subgroupC08G18slash38subgroup sectionBsection subgroupD21F3slash02subgroup subgroupB29B15slash12subgroup classD21class classB29class subgroupD21F7slash08subgroup subgroupB29B15slash10subgroup groupD21F3slash00group subgroupB29C70slash04subgroup subgroupB29C67slash24subgroup subclassD21Fsubclass subgroupB29C70slash50subgroup sectionDsection subclassB29Bsubclass groupC08G18slash00group subclassB29Csubclass sectionCsection subclassC08Gsubclass classC08class Belt for paper making machine and manufacturing method therefor The object of the present invention is to reduce the time, cost, and danger in manufacturing polyurethane for a belt for a papermaking machine at a high temperature. A belt for a papermaking machine according to the present invention comprises a base body and polyurethane and said polyurethane comprises an isocyanate-terminated urethane prepolymer and a hardener containing a dimethylthiotoluenediamine. The equivalent ratio of an active hydrogen group of said hardener and an isocyanate group of said urethane prepolymer in said polyurethane is in the range of 0.9 to 1.10 so that a belt for a papermaking machine having well-balanced crack resistance, abrasion resistance, and permanent set resistance may be obtained.  The present invention relates to a belt for a papermaking machine (hereinafter also called a "belt"). A belt for a papermaking machine comprising a base body and polyurethane is used in various processes of a papermaking machine, as is well-known. That is, a shoe press belt and transfer belt are used in the press part of a papermaking process, and a soft calender belt is used in the calender part of a papermaking process. A typical structure of a papermaking machine for which these belts are used will be explained based on Figs. 1, 2, and 3. Fig. 1 and Fig. 2 show an apparatus which is used for a press part and Fig. 3 shows an apparatus which is used for a calender part respectively. The apparatus of Fig. 1 and 2 is a shoe press apparatus. This shoe press apparatus has a press part comprising a press roll PR and a shoe PS. A wet paper web WW, a pair of felts PF, PF sandwiching the wet paper web WW, and belt BS are arranged in this press part and by rotating the press roll PR, a wet paper web WW, felts PF, PF, and belt BS run and pass the press part. In this connection, an arrow MD in the figure shows the direction of rotation of the press roll PR. This shoe press apparatus is roughly divided into two types; a shoe press apparatus for a relatively long belt BS which is shown in Fig. 1 and a shoe press apparatus for a relatively short belt BS which is shown in Fig. 2 Quite a lot of patent applications have been made for such a shoe press apparatus and belt up to the present. Moreover, a papermaking machine which is not shown in the figures, wherein a wet paper web is supported by a belt-shaped body in each process has been developed in recent years. This papermaking machine is known to those skilled in the art as a closed draw papermaking machine which does not have an open draw. A transfer belt is researched and developed as a belt for the press part of this closed draw papermaking machine. A typical example of this transfer belt is disclosed in the United States Patent No. 5298124. In the case of a apparatus of the calender part shown in Fig. 3, a belt for calender BC and rough surface paper RW which is a paper material are sandwiched in the press part comprising a calender roll CR and shoe PS. The belt BC and rough surface paper RW pass the press part with the rotation of the calender roll CR. A belt for this calender part BC is disclosed in the United States Patent No. 5836242. Since these belts have characteristic structures which are adapted to the used part, the structure of one belt is not necessarily simply applicable to the structure of the other belt. However, these belts has a common basic structure wherein they comprise a base body for imparting strength to the belt as a whole and polyurethane mounted to the base body. Therefore, when these belts are manufactured, they are through the common process of spreading liquid polyurethane over a base body. A belt for a papermaking machine comprising a base body and polyurethane, characterized in that said polyurethane comprises an isocyanate-terminated urethane prepolymer and a hardener containing a dimethylthiotoluenediamine and the equivalent ratio of an active hydrogen group of said hardener and an isocynate group of said urethane prepolymer in said polyurethane is in the range of 0.9 to 1.10. A manufacturing method of a belt for a papermaking machine, comprising steps of manufacturing a base body, mixing an isocyanate-terminated urethane prepolymer and a hardener containing a dimethylthiotoluenediamine for obtaining liquid polyurethane such that the equivalent ratio of an active hydrogen group of said hardener and an isocyanate group of said urethane prepolymer in said polyurethane is in the range of 0.9 to 1.10 and spreading said liquid polyurethane over said base body, and curing it. A manufacturing method of a belt for a papermaking machine as claimed in claim 2, wherein after mixing said urethane prepolymer and hardener, both are reacted for not less than 30 minutes at the temperature of 10 to 60°C and thereafter, both are reacted at the temperature of 100 to 150°C. <seperator>EP-1445827-A1<id_sep>subclassH01Qsubclass sectionHsection classH01class subgroupH01Q13slash08subgroup subgroupH01Q9slash04subgroup subgroupH01Q1slash24subgroup subgroupH01Q1slash38subgroup Patch antenna flat microstrip feed A plane antenna of the present invention gives the realisation of a surface mounting construction on a circuit base board, the enlargement of a mounting area for components, and the improvement of an SN ratio by avoiding the influence of a noise from a back face side of the mounting base board. The plane antenna mounted on the circuit base board has a dielectric substrate (100) and a junction conductor (114), and realises the surface mounting construction. The dielectric substrate (100) is provided on the circuit base board (108), and an antenna pattern part is mounted on the dielectric substrate. To a feeding point of the antenna pattern part (102) one end portion of the junction conductor is connected (114), and its the other end portion is connected to a feeding conductor of the circuit base board (108) at a side of a mounting face of the antenna element of the circuit base board. According to a construction like this, the surface mounting construction on the circuit base board (108) is realised.  BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to an antenna which is used for a radio communication device such as GPS (Global Positioning System) using a frequency band over UHF (Ultra High Frequency) , and mounting of the antenna. Along with a surface mounting construction of the antenna, the present invention relates to an antenna element which realizes the improvement of mounting efficiency of mounted components, a mounting method of the antenna element, a plane antenna, and a circuit base board and an electronic device having the plane antenna. Recently, as a mobile communication terminal device, a device which uses a plurality of radio communication methods in one terminal device is becoming widespread. In this case, if each communication method uses different radio communication frequency, it is necessary to provide a plurality of antennas. For example, in a mobile phone unit having a GPS function which receives an electric wave from a satellite and can obtain the information of a present position, since the frequency of a GPS signal is 1.57 GHz, this is different from 800 MHz zone and 2 GHz zone which are frequency bands used by a domestic mobile phone unit in Japan. Because of this, an exclusive antenna for GPS is mounted in addition to an antenna for the mobile phone unit. In this case, when installing a wireless LAN function such as short distance radio communication of 2.4 GHz zone in ISM band, it is necessary to mount an exclusive antenna. Further, a mobile phone unit and so on is directed to higher development of functions, for example, the embarkation of a digital camera and the addition of a high-speed CPU for the improvement of high-speed processing of software. In addition to this, for example, a liquid crystal display is made bigger. By these, the number of components is increasing and the density of mounted components is becoming higher. Hence, these give restriction to the mounting of a radio communication antenna. By the way, if a structural element has resonated with a predetermined frequency, the gain of an antenna is improved in proportion as its physical shape becomes larger, and an electricalcharacteristicoftheantennabecomesadvantageous. Therefore, when giving precedence to performance, its shape must be made larger. Because of this, in case that an antenna is mounted in a mobile phone unit, a trade-off between a restricted mounting space and an antenna performance satisfying the system gain of a radio communication system is performed. However, since an antenna with predetermined gain is required in order to obtain the minimum system gain, its shape and dimension are naturally decided. In a GPS antenna receiving a satellite electric wave, since the increment in a receiving level has influence on positioning accuracy, its gain had better be higher. Further, the satellite electric wave is a circularly polarized wave method, and the plane antenna for a circularly polarized wave is required in order to receive its electric wave with higher efficiency. For example, in a car navigation system, an antenna having a shape of 25 mm square is used. On the other hand, as an antenna for a mobile phone unit use, an antenna of 13 mm square is developed. This shortens electrical length by increasing the specific inductive capacity of a dielectric part and making GPS frequency resonate, and thereby a physical shape is made smaller. However, in this case, its gain falls by a dielectric loss. In case that a miniaturized exclusive antenna for GPS is mounted in a mobile phone unit, since its shape and measure are larger as compared with other parts, a mounting space for the antenna is needed. Obtaining an antenna mounting space like this becomes a cause leading to a fall of an article power in commerce because of an obstructive factor of miniaturization of a mobile phone unit, a restriction of a design of an appearance, and so on. An antenna element which is mounted on a circuit base board, comprising:  The antenna element of claim 1, wherein a space portion in which said junction conductor and said feeding conductor of a side of said circuit base board are made to connect is provided in said dielectric substrate. The antenna element of claim 1, wherein a feeding point of said antenna pattern part is set to a recess portion of said dielectric substrate, and said junction conductor which is pierced to said dielectric substrate is connected to the feeding point of said antenna pattern part at an inside of said recess portion. The antenna element of claim 1, wherein    said dielectric substrate has a through hole corresponding to the feeding point of said antenna pattern part, and a recess portion formed at an opening portion of said through hole correspondingly to a space portion in which said junction conductor and said feeding conductor of a side of said circuit base board are made to connect, and    said junction conductor at one end portion is connected to said feeding conductor and is stood on said circuit base board, and said junction conductor is pierced to said through hole of said dielectric substrate and is connected to said feeding point of said antenna pattern part. The antenna element of claim 1, wherein said dielectric substrate has a through hole corresponding to the feeding point of said antenna pattern part, a recess portion formed at an opening portion of said through hole correspondingly to a space portion in which said junction conductor and said feeding conductor of a side of said circuit base board are made to connect, and said junction conductor, piercing said through hole, being connected to said feeding point of said antenna pattern part at one end portion, and protruding in said recess portion at the other end portion. The antenna element of claim 1, wherein said junction conductor has a pillar portion that is pierced to said through hole of said dielectric substrate and is connected to the feeding point of said antenna pattern part, and a flange portion formed in said pillar portion. The antenna element of claim 6, wherein said pillar potion is set more thinly than thickness of said flange portion. The antenna element of claim 1, wherein said circuit base board and said dielectric substrate are fixed by an elastically adhesive material. The antenna element of claim 8, wherein said elastically adhesive material is a resin tape having adhesive layers at both faces. The antenna element of claim 6, wherein said flange portion is set larger than said through hole of said dielectric substrate and smaller than a recess portion formed at an opening portion of said through hole. A mounting method of an antenna element, comprising: A mounting method of an antenna element, comprising:  A plane antenna providing an antenna element which is mounted on a circuit base board, comprising:  The plane antenna of claim 13, wherein said circuit base board and said dielectric substrate are fixed by an elastically adhesive material. The plane antenna of claim 13, wherein a ground pattern part is mounted on an upper face of said circuit base board, and an insulating substrate or a shielding plate having a ground pattern part is provided to a rear face side of said circuit base board. The plane antenna of claim 14, wherein said elastically adhesive material is a resin tape having adhesive layers at both faces. A circuit base board on which a plane antenna providing an antenna pattern part in a dielectric substrate is mounted, comprising:  An electronic device providing an antenna element which is mounted on a circuit base board, comprising:  The electronic device of claim 18, wherein a space portion in which said junction conductor and said feeding conductor of a side of said circuit base board are made to connect is provided in said dielectric substrate. The electronic device of claim 18, wherein a feeding point of said antenna pattern part is set to a recess portion of said dielectric substrate, and said junction conductor which is pierced to said dielectric substrate is connected to the feeding point of said antenna pattern part at an inside of said recess portion. The electronic device of claim 18, wherein    said dielectric substrate has a through hole corresponding to the feeding point of said antenna pattern part, and a recess portion formed at an opening portion of said through hole correspondingly to a space portion in which said junction conductor and said feeding conductor of a side of said circuit base board are made to connect, and    said junction conductor at one end portion is connected to said feeding conductor and is stood on said circuit base board, and said junction conductor is pierced to said through hole of said dielectric substrate and is connected to said feeding point of said antenna pattern part. The electronic device of claim 18, wherein said dielectric substrate has a through hole corresponding to the feeding point of said antenna pattern part, a recess portion formed at an opening portion of said through hole correspondingly to a space portion in which said junction conductor and said feeding conductor of a side of said circuit base board are made to connect, and said junction conductor, piercing said through hole, being connected to said feeding point of said antenna pattern part at one end portion, and protruding in said recess portion at the other end portion. The electronic device of claim 18, wherein said junction conductor has a pillar portion that is pierced to said through hole of said dielectric substrate and is connected to the feeding point of said antenna pattern part, and a flange portion formed in said pillar portion. The electronic device of claim 23, wherein said pillar potion is set more thinly than thickness of said flange portion. The electronic device of claim 18, wherein said circuit base board and said dielectric substrate are fixed by an elastically adhesive material. The electronic device of claim 25, wherein said elastically adhesive material is a resin tape having adhesive layers at both faces. The electronic device of claim 23, wherein said flange portion is set larger than said through hole of said dielectric substrate and smaller than a recess portion formed at an opening portion of said through hole. An electronic device providing a plane antenna, comprising: The electronic device of claim 28, wherein said circuit base board and said dielectric substrate are fixed by an elastically adhesive material. The electronic device of claim 28, wherein a ground pattern part is mounted on an upper face of said circuit base board, and an insulating substrate or a shielding plate having a ground pattern part is provided to a rear face side of said circuit base board. The electronic device of claim 29, wherein said elastically adhesive material is a resin tape having adhesive layers at both faces. An electronic device comprising:  <seperator>EP-1600432-A1<id_sep>sectionBsection subgroupB01J27slash20subgroup classF01class groupB01J32slash00group subgroupC04B35slash565subgroup subgroupB01J35slash04subgroup subclassC04Bsubclass subgroupC04B35slash569subgroup groupB01J21slash00group subclassB01Jsubclass subgroupB01J27slash224subgroup groupB01J35slash00group classB01class subgroupC04B35slash10subgroup groupC04B38slash00group subgroupB01J21slash06subgroup subgroupC04B35slash14subgroup sectionFsection sectionCsection classC04class subgroupF01N3slash28subgroup subclassF01Nsubclass subgroupB01J21slash04subgroup SILICON CARBIDE BASED POROUS MATERIAL AND METHOD FOR PREPARATION THEREOF, AND HONEYCOMB STRUCTURE A silicon carbide based porous material (1) containing silicon carbide particles (2) as an aggregate and metallic silicon (3) as a bonding material and having a number of pores (5) formed by them, characterized in that it has an oxide phase (4) in at least a part of the pore (5), and the oxide phase (4) contains respective oxides of silicon, aluminum and an alkaline earth metal and contains substantially no alkaline earth metal silicate crystal phase; a method for producing the above porous material; and a honeycomb structure comprising the silicon carbide based porous material. The above porous material is capable of effectively inhibiting the corrosion by an acid (especially acetic acid) used in the operation of carrying a catalyst, that is, is improved in the resistance to an acid.  The present invention relates to a silicon carbide porous body, a method of manufacturing the same, and a honeycomb structure. More particularly, the present invention relates to a silicon carbide porous body which is effectively inhibited from being corroded by an acid (particularly acetic acid) used for loading a catalyst on the body to exhibit improved acid resistance, a method of manufacturing the same, and a honeycomb structure including the silicon carbide porous body. As a filter for trapping and removing particulate matter contained in dust-containing fluid such as exhaust gas discharged from a diesel engine (diesel particulate filter (DPF)), or a catalyst carrier for supporting a catalyst component for purifying a toxic substance contained in exhaust gas, a porous honeycomb structure including cell partition walls (ribs), which form a group of adjacent cells, and a honeycomb outer wall, which encloses and holds the outermost circumferential cells located at the outer circumference of the cell composite, has been widely used. As a material for the honeycomb structure, refractory silicon carbide (SiC) has been used. A DPF using a regeneration method in which an oxidizing catalyst is loaded on a DPF and deposited particulates are oxidized and burned to effect continuous regeneration (catalytic regeneration DPF) has also been developed. As such a honeycomb structure, a porous silicon carbide catalyst carrier having a honeycomb structure obtained by forming silicon carbide having a predetermined specific surface area and containing impurities as a starting material into a desired shape, drying the formed product, and firing the dried product in the temperature range of 1600 to 2200 °C has been disclosed (see JP-A-6-182228, for example). In the sintering mode (necking) of the catalyst carrier disclosed in JP-A-6-182228 utilizing the recrystallization reaction of silicon carbide particles, the silicon carbide component is evaporated from the surface of the silicon carbide particles and condenses at the contact section (neck section) between the particles, whereby the neck section is grown to obtain a bonding state. However, since an extremely high firing temperature is required to evaporate the silicon carbide, cost is increased. Moreover, since it is necessary to fire the material having a high coefficient of thermal expansion at a high temperature, firing yield is decreased. In the case of manufacturing a filter having a high porosity (particularly a filter having a porosity of 50% or more) by sintering utilizing the recrystallization reaction of the silicon carbide particles, the growth of the neck section is hindered since the sintering mechanism does not sufficiently function, whereby the strength of the filter is decreased. As a related-art technology for solving these problems, a porous honeycomb structure including refractory particles (particularly silicon carbide) as an aggregate and metal silicon and a method of manufacturing the same have been disclosed (see JP-A-2002-201082, for example). According to such a manufacturing method, a porous honeycomb structure can be inexpensively manufactured at a relatively low firing temperature, and the resulting porous honeycomb structure has characteristics such as a high porosity, high thermal conductivity, and high strength. In order to improve the strength and the oxidation resistance (during abnormal combustion or the like) of the honeycomb structure, a technology of forming an oxygen-containing phase on the surfaces of silicon carbide and metal silicon by using a method of (1) oxidizing a silicon carbide raw material and metal silicon in air in advance or oxidizing the materials in a calcinating stage, (2) subjecting the product obtained after firing to a heat treatment in an oxygen-containing atmosphere, (3) coating the surface of the honeycomb structure using a solution containing silicon and oxygen, or the like has been proposed (see JP-A-2002-154882, for example). A silicon carbide porous body, in which silicon carbide particles as an aggregate and metal silicon as a bonding material are bonded so that pores are formed between the silicon carbide particles, the silicon carbide porous body comprising an oxide phase in at least a part of each pore, wherein the oxide phase includes oxides of silicon, aluminum and an alkaline earth metal, and the oxide phase does not substantially include an alkaline earth metal silicate crystal phase. The silicon carbide porous body as defined in claim 1, wherein the oxide phase is provided on a surface of the silicon carbide particles and/or a surface of the metal silicon. The silicon carbide porous body as defined in claim 1 or 2, wherein the oxide of silicon is silicon dioxide (SiO2), the oxide of aluminum is dialuminum trioxide (Al2O3), and the oxide of an alkaline earth metal is calcium oxide (CaO) or strontium oxide (SrO). The silicon carbide porous body as defined in claim 3, wherein the oxide phase includes the dialuminum trioxide in an amount of 5.0 to 50.0 mol% of the entire oxide phase in molar ratio. The silicon carbide porous body as defined in any of claims 1 to 4, wherein the oxide phase includes silicon dioxide, dialuminum trioxide, and the oxide of an alkaline earth metal, the oxide phase being an amorphous phase or a crystal phase including dialuminum trioxide in a crystal structure. The silicon carbide porous body as defined in claim 5, wherein the crystal phase includes cordierite, anorthite, or strontium feldspar (SrAl2Si2O8). A honeycomb structure, comprising the silicon carbide porous body as defined in any of claims 1 to 6. A method of manufacturing a silicon carbide porous body, the method comprising: adding compounds containing silicon, aluminum, and an alkaline earth metal to silicon carbide particles and metal silicon to obtain a raw material, forming the resulting raw material into a predetermined shape, and calcinating and firing the resulting formed product to obtain a porous body including an oxide phase including oxides of silicon, aluminum, and an alkaline earth metal on at least a part of a surface of the silicon carbide particles and/or the metal silicon and having a content of dialuminum trioxide (Al2O3) of 5.0 to 50.0 mol% of the entire oxide phase in molar ratio. Amended claims under Art. 19.1 PCT 1. A silicon carbide porous body, in which silicon carbide particles as an aggregate and metal silicon as a bonding material are bonded so that pores are formed between the silicon carbide particles, the silicon carbide porous body comprising an oxide phase in at least a part of each pore,    wherein the oxide phase includes oxides of silicon, aluminum and an alkaline earth metal, and the oxide phase does not substantially include an alkaline earth metal silicate crystal phase,    and wherein the oxide of aluminum is dialuminum trioxide (Al2O3), the oxide phase including the dialuminum trioxide in an amount of 5.0 to 50.0 mol% of the entire oxide phase in molar ratio. 2. The silicon carbide porous body as defined in claim 1, wherein the oxide phase is provided on a surface of the silicon carbide particles and/or a surface of the metal silicon. 3. The silicon carbide porous body as defined in claim 1 or 2, wherein the oxide of silicon is silicon dioxide (SiO2), and the oxide of an alkaline earth metal is calcium oxide (CaO) or strontium oxide (SrO). 4. The silicon carbide porous body as defined in any of claims 1 to 3, wherein the oxide phase includes silicon dioxide, dialuminum trioxide, and the oxide of an alkaline earth metal, the oxide phase being an amorphous phase or a crystal phase including dialuminum trioxide in a crystal structure. 5. The silicon carbide porous body as defined in claim 4, wherein the crystal phase includes cordierite, anorthite, or strontium feldspar (SrAl2Si2O8). 6. A honeycomb structure, comprising the silicon carbide porous body as defined in any of claims 1 to 5. 7. A method of manufacturing a silicon carbide porous body, the method comprising: adding compounds containing silicon, aluminum, and an alkaline earth metal to silicon carbide particles and metal silicon to obtain a raw material, forming the resulting raw material into a predetermined shape, and calcinating and firing the resulting formed product to obtain a porous body including an oxide phase including oxides of silicon, aluminum, and an alkaline earth metal on at least a part of a surface of the silicon carbide particles and/or the metal silicon and having a content of dialuminum trioxide (Al2O3) of 5.0 to 50.0 mol% of the entire oxide phase in molar ratio. Statement under Art. 19.1 PCT The original Claim 1 is replaced by amended Claim 1 by incorporating the limitation stating "oxide of aluminum is dialuminum trioxide (Al2O3)" in the original Claim 3 and the limitation in the original Claim 4. In accordance with this amendment, the original Claim 4 is canceled, the statement "oxide of aluminum is dialuminum trioxide (Al2O3)" is deleted from the original Claim 3, and the dependencies of Claims 5 and 7 are revised to exclude Claim 4 therefrom. The original Claims 2, 6, and 8 remain unchanged. <seperator>EP-1531449-A1<id_sep>subclassG02Fsubclass subgroupG02F1slash13subgroup classG09class sectionGsection subgroupG02F1slash1333subgroup subgroupG09F9slash30subgroup subclassG09Fsubclass classG02class Large area display and method of manufacturing same An embodiment of a large area display according to the present invention may include a pixel layer including display elements, a connection layer, drivers in communication with the pixel layer and the connection layer, the drivers configured for driving pixels in the pixel layer and configured for communicating through the connection layer. The embodiment of a large area display may further comprise a laminate formed of the pixel layer, the connection layer and drivers. Other embodiments of the present invention include a method and apparatus for manufacturing a large area display.  Displays for video and computer monitors are well known in the art. Older display technologies, such at the cathode ray tube (CRT) displays, are being supplanted with newer technologies such as liquid crystal display (LCD) technology, electroluminescent (EL) display technology, and gas plasma display technology. These newer display technologies are useful in applications that require lighter weight, low power and thin displays relative to CRT display technology. LCD display devices, for example, typically include a pair of glass substrates or "half-cells" overlying one another with liquid crystal material confined between the glass substrates. The substrates are sealed at their periphery to form the cell or LCD. Transparent electrodes are typically applied to the interior surface of the substrates to allow the application of an electric field at various points on the substrates. These various points may form addressable pixel areas on the display. Note that conventional row and column cross point displays have difficulty when the array size reaches a certain limit. This is because the resistance of the rows and columns and parasitic capacitance combine to slow the driving speed down to an unusable point as the display becomes larger. It is desirable to be able to manufacture large area displays for use with portable devices such as laptop, notebook and tablet computers and personal digital assistants, as well as for much larger applications such as wall mounted displays. Accordingly, there exists a need in the art for large area display and method of manufacturing same.  An embodiment of a large area display according to the present invention may include a pixel layer including display elements, a connection layer, drivers in communication with the pixel layer and the connection layer, the drivers configured for driving pixels in the pixel layer and configured for communicating through the connection layer. The embodiment of a large area display may further comprise a laminate formed of the pixel layer, the connection layer and drivers. Additional features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the detailed description which follows, taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, which together illustrate, by way of example, features of embodiments of the present invention.  The following drawings illustrate exemplary embodiments for carrying out the invention. Like reference numerals refer to like parts in different views or embodiments of the present invention in the drawings.  Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated in the drawings, and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended. Alterations and further modifications of the inventive features illustrated herein, and additional applications of the principles of the inventions as illustrated herein, which would occur to one skilled in the relevant art and having possession of this disclosure, are to be considered within the scope of the invention. FIG. 1 is a side view of components of a large area display 100 prior to assembly according to an embodiment of the present invention. An embodiment of a large area display 100 may include a pixel layer 102, a connection layer 104 and drivers 106 (three drivers 106 are shown in FIG. 1) in communication with the pixel layer 102 and the connection layer 104. The drivers 106 may be configured for driving pixels in the pixel layer 102 and configured for communicating through the connection layer 104. Large area display 100 may further include a laminate formed of the pixel layer 102, the connection layer 104 and drivers 106 according to an embodiment of the present invention. A large area display (100, 200), comprising:  The large area display (100, 200) according to claim 1, wherein the drivers (106) comprise complementary metal on semiconductor (CMOS) circuitry on silicon or glass substrates. A large area display (100, 200), comprising:  The large area display (100, 200) according to claim 3, further comprising a bus (204) in communication with the connection layer (104) of each of the plurality of sub-displays (202) and configured for high-speed data communication. The large area display (100, 200) according to claim 4, wherein the bus (204) comprises low voltage differential signaling (LVDS). A method (300) of manufacturing a large area display (100, 200), comprising:  The method (300) according to claim 6, wherein providing a pixel layer (102) comprises providing one of a liquid crystal display (LCD) pixel layer, a light emitting diode (LED) pixel layer, an organic LED (OLED) pixel layer, a polymer light emitting device (PLED) pixel layer, an electroluminescent (EL) pixel layer, an electrophoretic display layer, electrochromic display layer, electrowetting display layer, gas plasma display layer and a fiber plasma display layer. A large area display (100, 200) comprising:  The large area display (100, 200) according to claim 8, wherein the means (106) for driving comprises complementary transistors. The large area display (100, 200) according to claim 9, wherein the complementary transistors comprise p-channel and n-channel amorphous or polycrystalline or single crystal silicon. <seperator>EP-1860432-A1<id_sep>classC12class subclassC12Qsubclass subgroupG01N33slash487subgroup sectionGsection classG01class sectionCsection groupC12Q1slash00group subclassG01Nsubclass subgroupG01N27slash49subgroup A method for operating a measuring meter and a measuring meter In a method for operating a measuring meter (10) for an electrochemical test strip (20) a voltage (V The invention relates to a method for operating a measuring meter and to a measuring meter according to the preamble of the independent claims. Electrical sensor systems for analysing analytes in a biological samples are widely used. For example, analytes such as glucose level, cholesterol level or uric in a sample such as blood may be analysed. In general, such electrochemical measuring systems include a test strip and a measuring meter. In particular, test strips are provided as single use, disposable strips for easy home use. In particular, electrochemical sensors using enzymatic amperometric methods are well known. The sensors of such systems have electrodes which are coated with a reagent including enzymes. The electrodes are used to sense an electrochemical current which is produced by a reaction between the reagent and the analyte or the analytes in a test sample. The enzyme is used for a unique, well specified reaction with a specific analyte in the test sample. This specific reaction reduces the interference with other analytes. A reagent with a specific cholesterol enzyme may e.g. be used to test the cholesterol level in a sample. A reagent with a glucose oxidase enzyme may be used to measure the glucose level in a blood sample. The glucose oxidase does not react with cholesterol. Neither does it react with other sugars in the blood sample. The use of glucose oxidase e.g. typically leads to a 99% unique selection of glucose within the sample. Methods based on the use of enzyme are leading to most accurate measurement results. Currently, a plurality of generations of amperometric methods have been developed for analysis of the glucose level in a blood sample. In a first generation of glucose analysis, the reagent covering the sensor include glucose oxidase enzymes (hereinafter referred to as GOD). The mechanism of the reaction between the glucose in the sample and the enzyme and subsequent detection is as follows: Glucose + GOD GOD has two forms. In equation (1), GOD is present in its natural, oxidised form GOD After reaction with oxygen O This first generation glucose analysis method has some drawbacks which are in particular due to an insufficient amount of oxygen O In order to solve the oxygen dependence problem, in a second generation of glucose sensor, electron carrying mediators are used in the reagent. Typically, potassium ferrocyanide is used as a mediator. In case of strips using such mediators, the reaction is as follows: Glucose + GOD In the above equations, M There have been several proposals in order to overcome the oxygen interference in the second generation of glucose sensors. One solution is to replace the glucose oxidase enzyme with glucose dehydrogenase (GDH). Because GDH does not react with oxygen such as to create H In order to determine the concentration of the analyte in the sample, the sensing current is measured. The sensing current is called the Cottrell current, according to the following equation: The concentration C of the analyte shall be determined. This concentration is proportional to the sensing current i. Because the sensing current is also proportional to the surface area A of the working electrode, a precisely defined surface area of the working electrode of the test strip is a key factor in view of an accurate measurement. A method for operating a measuring meter (10) for an electrochemical test strip (20),  wherein a voltage (501,508;601;614;621,628) is applied to electrodes (21,22) of said test strip (20) at least during one of a sample presence detection period (502;602;611;622) and an incubation period (507;605,613,627),  A method according to claim 1, wherein said repeatedly varying voltage (501,508;601;614;621,628) is applied in a regular pattern with a predetermined or predeterminable frequency and with a maximum value which is constant at least during one of said periods. A method according to one of the claims 1 or 2, wherein said voltage (501,508;601;614;621,628) is applied as a series of pulses. A method according to claim 3, wherein the minimum value between two successive pulses is 0 Volt. A method according to claim 3, wherein the minimum value of the voltage between successive pulses is >0 Volt, but less than 0.1 Volt. A method according to one of the claims 1 to 5, wherein the maximum value of the voltage applied during the incubation period (507;605,613,627) is sufficiently high to allow oxidation of the reduced form of a mediator M A method according to one of the claim 1 to 6, wherein the maximum value of the voltage applied to the electrodes (21, 22) during the sample presence detection period (502;602;611;622) is sufficient for creating a measurable current between the electrodes (21, 22) when a sample is present. A method according to claim 1 to 3, wherein the duration (T1,T3)between two successive pulses is operated by an open circuit. A method according to one of the claims 3 to 7, wherein the duration (T2) of pulses during the incubation period (507;605,613,627) is from 10 to 300 µs, preferably 100 µs and/or wherein the time (T1) between successive pulses is from 10 to 50 ms, preferably 20 ms. A measuring meter (10) for an electrochemical test strip (20), comprising means (47;79) for application of a voltage to electrodes (21, 22) of said test strip (20),  wherein said means (47;79) are designed to apply a repeatedly increasing and decreasing voltage (501,508;601;614;621,628) at least during one of said sample presence detection period (502;602;611;622) and said incubation period (507; 605, 613, 627) . A meter according to claim 10, wherein said means (47;79) are designed to apply a voltage in a regular pattern with a predetermined or predeterminable frequency. A measuring meter according to one of the claims 10 to 11, wherein the means (47;79) for applying a voltage are designed to apply said voltage in a series of pulses. A meter according to claim 12, wherein the means (47;79) for applying a voltage are designed to apply a voltage of 0 Volt between successive pulses. A meter according to claim 12, wherein the means (47;79) for applying a voltage are designed to apply a voltage of >0 Volt but less than 0,1 Volt between successive pulses. A meter according to one of the claims 10 to 14, wherein the means (47;79) for applying a voltage during the incubation period (507;605,613,627) are designed to apply a voltage sufficiently high to oxidise the reduced form of a mediator M A meter according to one of the claim 10 to 15, wherein the means (47;79) for applying a voltage are designed to apply a voltage during sample presence detection period (502;602;611;622) with a maximum value which is sufficient for creating a measurable current between the electrodes (21, 22) of the test strip when a sample is present. A meter according to one of the claims 12 to 16, wherein the means (47;79) for applying a voltage are designed to apply a voltage consisting of pulses with a duration (T2;T4) of 10 to 300 µs, preferably 100 µs and/or with a time (T1;T3) between successive pulses of 10 to 50 ms, preferably 20 ms. A meter, in particular according to one of the claims 10 to 17, wherein the meter is provided with means for limiting the current flow between such electrodes during an incubation period (507;605,613,627). A meter according to claim 18, wherein the means for limiting the current are formed by at least two resistors which can be selectively connected to an entry of an operational amplifier of a current to voltage converter. A method in particular according to one of the claims 1 to 9, the method comprising the further step of limiting the flowing current between electrodes of a test strip during an incubation period. <seperator>EP-1563750-A1<id_sep>subgroupA43B7slash08subgroup classA43class subgroupA43B13slash12subgroup subgroupA43B13slash18subgroup subgroupA43B13slash14subgroup subgroupA43B7slash12subgroup subgroupA43B7slash06subgroup groupA43B7slash00group subclassA43Bsubclass subgroupA43B13slash02subgroup sectionAsection subgroupA43B13slash20subgroup Breathable sole structure for footwear The instant invention is a breathable sole structure for footwear. The footwear sole structure includes an insole (12), an outsole (14), and a functional membrane system (16). The insole has an area with a plurality of holes therethrough. The outsole has an area with a plurality of holes therethrough. The functional membrane system has a microporous hydrophilic membrane (36) and a microporous hydrophobic membrane (38). The insole and the outsole are bonded to each other, so that the functional membrane system is sandwiched therebetween; and furthermore, the functional membrane system is juxtaposed to said areas.  The instant invention relates to a breathable sole structure for footwear. Footwear, and in particular shoes, usually include two major components, a shoe upper and a sole. The general purpose of the shoe upper is to snuggly and comfortably enclose the foot. Ideally, the shoe upper should be made from an attractive, highly durable, comfortable materials or combination of materials. The sole, constructed from a durable material, is designed to provide traction and to protect the foot during use. The sole also typically serves the important function of providing enhanced cushioning and shock absorption during athletic activities to protect the feet, ankles, and legs of the wearer from the considerable forces generated. Many kinds of footwear, such as athletic shoes, everyday walking shoes, and work boots have the drawback of poor ventilation. The shoe upper and sole do not allow the foot to breathe. Since the foot cannot breathe, perspiration cannot be removed. The accumulation of perspiration can then promote the growth of bacteria, fungi and the like as well as the accompanying unpleasant odors and skin problems. U.S. Pat. No. 5,044,096, which is incorporated herein by reference, discloses an improved ventilation system for a shoe. In this patent, the shoe sole is made of an outsole and an insole with holes that traverse the thickness of the combined insole/outsole structure. The sole structure further includes a microporous waterproof membrane disposed between the insole and the outsole. This membrane allows the foot to breathe; thus, perspiration may be removed. While the forgoing shoe ventilation solution has met with commercial success, there is still a need for better and improved ventilation in footwear. The instant invention is a breathable sole structure for footwear. The footwear sole structure includes an insole, an outsole, and a functional membrane system. The insole has an area with a plurality of holes therethrough. The outsole has an area with a plurality of holes therethrough. The functional membrane system has a microporous hydrophilic membrane and a microporous hydrophobic membrane. The insole and the outsole are bonded to each other, so that the functional membrane system is sandwiched therebetween; and furthermore, the functional membrane system is juxtaposed to said areas. For the purpose of illustrating the invention, there is shown in the drawings a form that is presently preferred; it being understood, however, that this invention is not limited to the precise arrangements and instrumentalities shown. Referring to the drawings wherein like numerals indicate like elements, there is shown in Fig. 1 and Fig. 2, a preferred embodiment of a sole 10. Sole 10 includes insole 12, outsole 14, and functional membrane system 16. The insole 12 and the outsole 14 are bonded together, and the functional membrane system 16 is sandwiched therebetween. The insole 12 faces the interior of a shoe where the foot rests; while the outsole 14 is exposed to the outside world. Insole 12 may be made of synthetic materials, rubbers, or similar materials. Insole 12 includes a perforated region 18. Perforated region 18 defines an area in which a plurality of holes 20 is provided. Holes 20 transverse the insole 12. Insole 12, further, includes an upper coupling region 22. The upper coupling region 22, as used herein, is defined as the region between the outer perimeter of the perforated region 183, and the perimeter of insole 12. A breathable sole structure for footwear comprising:  The breathable sole structure for footwear according to Claim 1, wherein said functional membrane system being a single laminated bi-layer functional membrane system. The breathable sole structure for footwear according to Claim 1, wherein said insole and said outsole being bonded to each other by a method selected from the group consisting of press-gluing method, and injection molding method. The breathable sole structure for footwear according to Claim 1, wherein said outsole further comprising a tread. The breathable sole structure for footwear according to Claim 1, wherein said microporous hydrophilic membrane has a thickness in the range of 250µ to 1200µ; an average pore size in the range of 0.1µ to 1µ; a Gurley of 45 seconds/10cc; and a porosity in the range of 60% to 70%. The breathable sole structure for footwear according to Claim 5, wherein said microporous hydrophilic membrane further having an absorption according to the thickness in the range of 20mg/cm2 to 60mg/cm2; a desorption of 100%/2h; and a permeability to steam according to thickness in the range of 60mg/cm2/8h to 130mg/cm2/8h The breathable sole structure for footwear according to Claim 1, wherein said microporous hydrophobic membrane having a porosity in the range of 30% to 60%; an average pore size in the range of 0.02µ × 0.08µ to 0.2µ × 1.5µ; a thickness in the range of 8µ to 50µ; and a Gurley in the range of 5 to 100 seconds/10cc. The breathable sole structure for footwear according to Claim 7, wherein said microporous hydrophobic membrane further having a tensile strength (machine direction) in the range of 15kpsi to 19kpsi; and a tensile strength (transverse direction) in the range of 1.2kpsi to 2.2kpsi. The breathable sole structure for footwear according to Claim 1, wherein said microporous hydrophobic membrane having a porosity of 55%; an average pore size of 0.209µ × 0.054µ; a thickness of 25µ or less; and a Gurley of at least 9 seconds/10cc. The breathable sole structure for footwear according to Claim 1, wherein said microporous hydrophilic membrane comprising a polyolefin. The breathable sole structure for footwear according to Claim 10, wherein said polyolefin being selected from the group consisting of a polyethylene, a polypropylene, and combination thereof. The breathable sole structure for footwear according to Claim 1, wherein said microporous hydrophobic membrane comprising a polyolefin. The breathable sole structure for footwear according to Claim 12, wherein said polyolefin being selected from the group consisting of a polyethylene, a polypropylene, and combinations thereof. <seperator>EP-1865300-A1<id_sep>subgroupG01M3slash18subgroup sectionGsection classG01class subclassG01Msubclass subgroupG01M3slash16subgroup Self-diagnostic pipes Method to identify leakages in plastic pipes and in a network of plastic pipes and multilayer plastic pipes suitable for carrying out the method.  The present invention relates to a method to identify leakages in plastic pipes and in a network of plastic pipes. It further relates to self diagnostic plastic pipes and network of pipes. It is widely known in the art that one of the most relevant problems for buried or chased in network of plastic pipes is to detect the failure of pipes and to determine the position of leakages of the fluid flowing into the network. Several detecting systems and methods have been proposed to solve this problem. Among others, the International patent application Therefore, there is still the need of an effective method for the determination of failure of plastic pipes, in particular of underground plastic pipes, and for self detectable plastic pipes using said method. The method according to the invention can be conveniently used to detect the failure of multilayer plastic pipes comprising at least one inner layer of plastic material, at least one layer of a conductive material (solid conductor) adhered to said inner layer and at least one further plastic layer adhered to the surface of the conductive material opposite to the surface adhered to the inner plastic layer, wherein the fluid present inside the pipe is a conductive fluid (fluid conductor) and to determine the position of the failure along the pipes. The method of the instant invention is particularly suitable for detecting failure and determine the failure position in pipes or networks of pipes wherein the conductive fluid present inside the pipes fills up completely the inner part of the pipes. More preferably, the method of the invention is suitable for detecting failure and determining the failure position in in-pressure pipes or in networks of in-pressure pipes, like for example networks of municipal water. The method of the invention is based on the fact that the at least one layer of conductive material can be considered a cylindrical solid conductor having resistance The conductive fluid present inside the pipe or the network of pipes is also a cylindrical fluid conductor having resistance The method of the invention is particularly suitable for detecting the presence of a failure in a multilayer plastic pipe wherein the fluid conductor present inside the pipe has a conductivity comprised in the range from 5 to 10 The method of the instant invention may be conveniently illustrated with reference to Figure 1A and 1B representing the equivalent circuits in position A and B of the multilayer plastic pipes. The method of the instant invention for detecting the failure of a multilayer plastic pipe comprising at least one inner layer of plastic material, at least one layer of a conductive material (solid conductor) adhered to said inner plastic layer and at least one further plastic layer adhered to the surface of the solid conductor opposite to the surface adhered to the inner plastic layer, wherein the fluid present inside the pipe is a conductive fluid (fluid conductor) comprises the following steps: To apply the method of the invention the resistivity of the fluid conductor ρ Method for detecting the failure of a multilayer plastic pipe comprising at least one inner layer of plastic material at least one layer of a conductive material adhered to said inner layer and at least one further plastic layer adhered to the surface of the solid conductor opposite to the surface adhered to the inner plastic layer, wherein the fluid present inside the pipe is a conductive fluid comprising the following steps:  The method of claim 1 further comprising the step (v) of determining the value of ρ The method of claim 1 or 2 wherein the at least one electrical generator and the at least one electric current measuring instrument are electrically connected in series to the solid conductor and to the fluid conductor present inside the pipe. Multilayer plastic pipe comprising at least one inner layer of plastic material, at least one layer of a conductive material adhered to said inner layer and at least one further plastic layer adhered to the surface of the conductive material opposite to the surface adhered to the inner plastic layer,  The multilayer plastic pipe of claim 4, wherein at least one electrical generator and the at least one electric current measuring instrument are electrically connected in series to the solid conductor. The multilayer plastic pipe of claim 4 or 5 further comprising at least one active plastic pipe joint comprising means for electrically connecting the at least one layer of conductive material in series or in parallel to at least one electrical generator and to at least one electric current measuring instrument and electric connecting means for electrically connecting in series or in parallel the at least one electrical generator and at least one electric current measuring instrument to a fluid present inside the pipe. A self-diagnostic network of pipes comprising a plurality of multilayer plastic pipes, each multilayer plastic pipe comprising at least one inner layer of plastic material, at least one layer of a conductive material adhered to said inner layer and at least one further plastic layer adhered to the surface of the conductive material opposite to the surface adhered to the inner plastic layer wherein the multilayer plastic pipes are joined with an active plastic joint comprising means for electrically connecting in series or in parallel the at least one layer of conductive material of at least two multilayer plastic pipes to at least one electrical generator and to at least one electric current measuring instrument and electric connecting means for electrically connecting in series or in parallel the at least one electrical generator and at least one electric current measuring instrument to a fluid conductor present inside the pipe. A self-diagnostic network of pipes comprising at least two multilayer plastic pipes comprising at least one inner layer of plastic material, at least one layer of a conductive material adhered to said inner layer and at least one further plastic layer adhered to the surface of the solid conductor opposite to the surface adhered to the inner plastic layer, said multilayer plastic pipes further comprising at least one active plastic pipe joint comprising means for electrically connecting the at least one layer of conductive material of the at least two multilayer plastic pipes in series or in parallel to at least one electrical generator and to at least one electric current measuring instrument and means for electrically connecting in series or in parallel the at least one electrical generator and at least one electric current measuring instrument to a fluid conductor present inside the pipe, said multilayer plastic pipes being joined to a plurality of multilayer plastic pipes joined with passive pipe joints. <seperator>EP-1276244-A2<id_sep>classH04class subgroupH04B1slash50subgroup sectionHsection subclassH04Bsubclass subgroupH04B1slash44subgroup classH01class subgroupH01P1slash10subgroup subgroupH04B1slash48subgroup subgroupH01P1slash15subgroup subclassH01Psubclass Composite high-frequency switch, high-frequency module, and communication apparatus A high-frequency module prevents distortion in first (D21, D31) and second diodes (D22, D32) of a high-frequency switch in a communication system which is not selected without providing a negative power source, and a communication apparatus includes such a high-frequency module. The high-frequency module includes a diplexer (11) having inductors (L11, L12) and capacitors (C11 - C15), and high-frequency switches (12, 13) including first (D21, D31) and second (D22, D32) diodes, transmission lines (TL21, TL22), inductors (L21, L22, L31, L32), and capacitors (C11-C15)  The present invention relates to a composite high-frequency switch, a high-frequency module, and a communication apparatus. More particularly, the present invention relates to a composite high-frequency switch, a high-frequency module, and a communication apparatus, which is used in a plurality of different communication systems. Presently, in Europe, as a communication apparatus, a dual-band portable phone which operates in a plurality of communication systems, for example, a DCS (Digital Cellular System) in which a 1.8-GHz band is used and a GSM (Global System for Mobile Communications) in which a 900-MHz band is used has been proposed. In contrast to a conventional portable phone which operates in only one communication system, this dual-band portable phone operates in two communication systems. This enables a user to select and to use a suitable communication system. In the dual-band portable phone, a high-frequency module is operative to switch between a plurality of communication systems and to switch between a transmission circuit and a receiving circuit. A known high-frequency module is disclosed in Japanese Unexamined Patent Application Publication No. 11-168303. This conventional high-frequency module is defined by an antenna switch module which connects the two communication systems DCS and GSM to an antenna, and includes a diplexer and two high-frequency switches. The two high-frequency switches switch between a transmission circuit and a receiving circuit, and include first and second diodes, a transmission line, and an inductor. The anode of a first diode is connected to the antenna terminal side and its cathode is connected to the transmission terminal side, and an inductor is connected between the cathode and a ground. The transmission line is connected between an antenna terminal and a receiving terminal, and the cathode of a second diode is connected to the receiving terminal side and a capacitor is connected between the anode of the second diode and a ground. A control terminal is connected between the second diode and the capacitor. When this high-frequency module operates, a positive voltage is applied to the control terminal of the high-frequency switch on the selected communication system side, and a zero voltage is applied to the control terminal of the high-frequency switch on the communication system side which is not selected. However, a problem arises in that a received signal or a transmission signal in the selected communication system side leaks to the communication system side which is not selected, and the first and second diodes of the high-frequency switch of the communication system which is not selected are distorted. To solve this problem, a method in which a negative voltage is applied to the control terminal of the high-frequency switch of the communication system side which is not selected, such that a reverse bias is applied to the first and second diodes of the high-frequency switch of the communication system which is not selected. However, according to the above-described high-frequency module, since a negative voltage must be applied to the control terminal of the high-frequency switch on the communication system side which is not selected, a negative power source must be provided within the dual-band portable phone, which increases the complexity of the configuration of the circuit. A composite high-frequency switch comprising:  A composite high-frequency switch according to Claim 1, further comprising a multilayer substrate (14) having a plurality of sheet layers layered thereon, wherein a diode (D21, D31, D22, D32) of the composite high-frequency switch is mounted on the multilayer substrate (14), and a transmission line (TL21, TL31) of the composite high-frequency switch is provided in the multilayer substrate (14). A high-frequency module comprising:  A high-frequency module according to Claim 3, further comprising a multilayer substrate (14) having a plurality of sheet layers layered thereon, wherein a diode (D21, D31, D22, D32) of the composite high-frequency switch is mounted on the multilayer substrate (14), and the inductor (L11, L12) and the capacitor (C11 - C15) of the diplexer, and a transmission line (TL21, TL31) of the high-frequency switch is provided in the multilayer substrate (14). A high-frequency module according to Claim 4, wherein the capacitor (C11 - C15) of the diplexer (11) is connected to the ground, and a grounding electrode of the composite high-frequency switch is provided between the capacitor (C11 - C15) and the transmission line (TL21, TL31) of the composite high-frequency switch. A communication apparatus comprising a composite high-frequency switch according to Claim 1. A communication apparatus comprising a high-frequency module according to Claim 3. A composite high-frequency switch, comprising:  A composite high-frequency switch according to Claim 8, further comprising a multilayer substrate (14) having a plurality of sheet layers layered thereon, wherein a diode (D21, D31, D22, D32) of the composite high-frequency switch is mounted on the multilayer substrate (14), and a transmission line (TL21, TL31) of the high-frequency switch is provided in the multilayer substrate (14). A high-frequency module comprising:  A high-frequency module according to Claim 10, further comprising a multilayer substrate (14) having a plurality of sheet layers layered thereon, wherein a diode (D21, D31, D22, D32) of the composite high-frequency switch is mounted on the multilayer substrate (14), and the inductor (L11, L12) and the capacitor (C11 - C15) of the diplexer, and a transmission line (TL21, TL31) of the composite high-frequency switch is provided the multilayer substrate (14). A high-frequency module according to Claim 11, wherein the capacitor of the diplexer (11) is connected to the ground, and a grounding electrode of the composite high-frequency switch is provided between the capacitor (C11 - C15) and the transmission line (TL21, TL31) of the composite high-frequency switch. A communication apparatus comprising a composite high-frequency switch according to Claim 8. A communication apparatus comprising a composite high-frequency module according to Claim 10. A composite high-frequency switch, comprising:  A composite high-frequency switch according to Claim 15, further comprising a multilayer substrate (14) having a plurality of sheet layers layered thereon, wherein a diode (D21, D31, D22, D32) of the composite high-frequency switch is mounted on the multilayer substrate (14), and a transmission line (TL21, TL31) of the composite high-frequency switch is provided in the multilayer substrate (14). A high-frequency module comprising:  A high-frequency module according to Claim 17, further comprising a multilayer substrate (14) having a plurality of sheet layers layered thereon, wherein a diode (D21, D31, D22, D32) of the composite high-frequency switch is mounted on the multilayer substrate (14), and the inductor (L11, L12) and the capacitor (C11 - C15) of the diplexer, and a transmission line (TL21, TL31) of the high-frequency switch is provided in the multilayer substrate (14). A high-frequency module according to Claim 18, wherein the capacitor (C11 - C15) of the diplexer (11) is connected to the ground, and a grounding electrode of the composite high-frequency switch is provided between the capacitor (C11 - C15) and the transmission line (TL21, TL31) of the high-frequency switch. A communication apparatus comprising a composite high-frequency switch according to Claim 15. A communication apparatus comprising a high-frequency module according to Claim 17. <seperator>EP-1733787-A1<id_sep>subgroupB01J29slash16subgroup sectionBsection subgroupC10G45slash08subgroup subgroupB01J27slash14subgroup groupB01J37slash00group subgroupB01J35slash10subgroup subgroupB01J29slash14subgroup subgroupB01J27slash19subgroup subclassB01Jsubclass groupB01J35slash00group classB01class subgroupC10G45slash04subgroup groupB01J29slash00group subclassC10Gsubclass subgroupC10G45slash12subgroup subgroupB01J37slash04subgroup subgroupC10G45slash02subgroup classC10class sectionCsection subgroupC10G45slash06subgroup CATALYST FOR HYDROGENATION TREATMENT OF HYDROCARBON OIL AND METHOD FOR PREPARATION THEREOF, AND METHOD FOR HYDROGENATION TREATMENT OF HYDROCARBON OIL There is provided a catalyst for hydrotreating a hydrocarbon oil, which comprises an inorganic oxide support containing a certain amount of phosphorus oxide having provided thereon: at least one selected from metals in the Group 6 of the periodic table, at least one selected from metals in the Group 8 of the periodic table, and carbon, and which has a certain specific surface area, pore volume, and mean pore diameter, a process for producing the same, and a method for hydrotreating a hydrocarbon oil using the same. Thereby, the catalyst can be produced in a simple and convenient manner and sulfur compounds in the hydrocarbon oil can be exceedingly highly desulfurized and simultaneously nitrogen compounds can be diminished without necessitating severe operating conditions. The present invention relates to a catalyst for hydrotreating a hydrocarbon oil (hereinafter, sometimes simply referred to as "hydrotreating catalyst"), a process for producing the same, and a method for hydrotreating a hydrocarbon oil using the hydrotreating catalyst. More specifically, it relates to a hydrotreating catalyst having such excellent desulfurization activity and denitrification activity in hydrotreating a hydrocarbon oil that it can reduce sulfur compounds and nitrogen compounds contained in the hydrocarbon oil to a level lower than those attained in the case that this kind of conventional hydrotreating catalysts are used, and to a process for producing the same and a method for hydrotreating a hydrocarbon oil using the hydrotreating catalyst. Recently, a global trend toward stricter quality regulation values for petroleum products (hydrocarbon oils) has emerged to improve atmospheric environments. For example, a reduction of sulfur compounds in gas oils is desirable because sulfur may adversely affect the durability of after-treatment apparatus expected to provide effective control of diesel emissions, such as oxidation catalysts, nitrogen oxide (NOx) reduction catalysts, and continuous regeneration-type filters for removing particulate matter from diesel exhausts. Under these circumstances, develop of a technique of ultra-deep desulfurization for reducing most of the sulfur compounds in a hydrocarbon oil is being regarded as important. A possible technique generally usable for reducing the sulfur compounds of a hydrocarbon oil is to use severer operating conditions for hydrodesulfurization, e.g., reaction temperature and liquid hourly space velocity. However, when reaction temperature is elevated, a carbonaceous matter precipitates on the catalyst and hence catalytic activity rapidly decreases. Moreover, use of a lowered liquid hourly space velocity results in a decreased purification ability although desulfurization is enhanced, so that it becomes necessary to enlarge the scale of the facility. Consequently, the best way of attaining the ultra-deep desulfurization of a hydrocarbon oil without using severer operating conditions is to develop a catalyst having an excellent desulfurization activity. Many investigations are recently being made on various subjects such as the kinds of active metals, methods of active-metal impregnation, improvements of catalyst supports, regulation of catalyst pore structures, and activation methods, and the following results of development have been reported and known on novel deep desulfurization of a gas oil as one example. For example, there has been known a process for producing a catalyst which comprises impregnating a support with a solution containing a compound of a metal in the Group 6 of the periodic table (hereinafter simply referred to as "Group 6 metal"), a phosphorus component, a compound of a metal in the Group 8 of the periodic table (hereinafter simply referred to as "Group 8 metal"), and an organic acid, followed by drying at a temperature of 200°C or lower (see, Patent Documents 1 and 2). Moreover, there has been known a catalyst containing an oxide support and a salt or complex of a Group 8 metal selected from cobalt and nickel and a heteropolyacid of a Group 6 metal selected from molybdenum and tungsten thereon, wherein a concentration of the Group 8 metal is from 2 to 20% by weight in the basis of the support, a concentration of the Group 6 metal is from 5 to 50% by weight in the basis of the support, and free water is substantially not present (see. Patent Document 3). Furthermore, there has been known a catalyst comprising a support and a Group 6 metal and a Group 8 metal thereon, which is obtained by adding a hydroxycarboxylic acid in an amount of 0.3 to 5.0 equivalents to total number of moles of the Group 6 metal and the Group 8 metal, followed by drying at a temperature of 200°C or lower (see, Patent Document 4). As above, there have been proposed various catalysts and processes for producing the same and also proposed catalysts having higher desulfurization activity which can be produced in a simple and convenient manner and with which the ultra-deep desulfurization of a hydrocarbon oil can be realized without using severer operating conditions. However, it is still desired to develop a catalyst having further improved activity and a longer catalyst life. A catalyst for hydrotreating a hydrocarbon oil, which comprises an inorganic oxide support containing a phosphorus oxide in an amount of 15% by weight or less on the basis of the support and having provided thereon:  The catalyst for a hydrotreating hydrocarbon oil according to claim 1, wherein a ratio by weight between the metal in the Group 8 of the periodic table and the metal in the Group 6 of the periodic table as a value of [metal in the Group 8]/[(metal in the Group 8) + (metal in the Group 6)] is from 0.1 to 0.25 in terms of respective oxides. The catalyst for hydrotreating a hydrocarbon oil according to claim 1 or 2, wherein, when a line analysis in the crosswise direction of cross-section through the center using an electron probe microanalysis (EPMA) apparatus, a phosphorus atom distribution satisfies the following equation (1):  A process for producing the catalyst for hydrotreating a hydrocarbon oil according to any one of claims 1 to 3, which comprises supporting a metal in the Group 6 of the periodic table so as to be at from 10 to 40% by weight, a metal in the Group 8 of the periodic table so as to be at from 1 to 15% by weight in terms of respective oxides, and carbon so as to be at from 2 to 14% by weight on the basis of the catalyst, using a solution containing a compound containing at least one selected from metals in the Group 8 of the periodic table, a compound containing at least one selected from metals in the Group 6 of the periodic table, and an organic acid, on an inorganic oxide support containing a phosphorus oxide at 15% by weight or less on the basis of the support which has a specific surface area of from 230 to 500 m The process for producing the catalyst for hydrotreating a hydrocarbon oil according to claim 4, wherein the above inorganic oxide support containing a phosphorus oxide is prepared by a kneading method of kneading a starting material of the inorganic oxide support and a starting material of the phosphorus oxide. The process for producing the catalyst for hydrotreating a hydrocarbon oil according to claim 4 or 5, wherein the above inorganic oxide support containing a phosphorus oxide is prepared by calcining at from 400°C to 700°C for from 0.5 to 10 hours. A method for hydrotreating a hydrocarbon oil, wherein a catalytic reaction is carried out at a hydrogen partial pressure of from 0.7 to 8 MPa, a temperature of from 220 to 420°C, a liquid hourly space velocity of from 0.3 to 10 hr <seperator>EP-1879292-A1<id_sep>subclassH03Hsubclass subgroupH04L25slash03subgroup classH04class classH03class sectionHsection groupH04S1slash00group subclassH04Ssubclass subgroupH03H17slash02subgroup subclassH04Lsubclass Partitioned fast convolution The present invention relates to a method for processing a digital input signal by a Finite Impulse Response, FIR, filtering means, comprising partitioning the digital input signal in the time domain to obtain at least two partitions of the digital input signal; partitioning the FIR filtering means in the time domain to obtain at least two partitions of the FIR filtering means; Fourier transforming each of the at least two partitions of the digital input signal to obtain Fourier transformed signal partitions; Fourier transforming each of the at least two partitions of the FIR filtering means to obtain Fourier transformed filter partitions; performing a convolution of the Fourier transformed signal partitions and the corresponding Fourier transformed filter partitions to obtain spectral partitions; combining the spectral partitions to obtain a total spectrum and inverse Fourier transforming the total spectrum to obtain a digital output signal.  Field of Invention The present invention relates to digital signal processing and, in particular, the filtering of audio signals by Finite Impulse Response filters (FIR). The invention particularly relates to filtering for echo compensation and equalization by means of long Finite Impulse Response filters. Background of the invention The enhancement of the quality of signals received in a communication system is a central topic in acoustic and, in particular, speech signal processing. The communication between two parties is often carried out in a noisy background environment and noise reduction as well as echo compensation are necessary to guarantee intelligibility. A prominent example is hands-free voice communication in vehicles. Of particular importance is the handling of signals of the remote subscriber, which are emitted by the loudspeakers and therefore received again by the microphone(s), since otherwise unpleasant echoes can severely affect the quality and intelligibility of voice conversation. In the worst case acoustic feedback can even lead to a complete breakdown of communication. To overcome the above mentioned problems means for acoustic echo compensation are provided, which basically works as follows. A replica of the acoustic feedback is synthesized and a compensation signal is obtained from the received signal of the loudspeakers. This compensation signal is subtracted from the sending signal of the microphone thereby generating a resulting signal to be sent to the remote subscriber. Furthermore, equalization of audio signals is usually necessary in order to enhance the quality of transmitted signals to an acceptable level, e.g., to increase the intelligibility of received speech signals that are sent by a remote communication party in hands-free telephony. The equalization filtering means usually processes the acoustic input signal by boosting or attenuating the signals over a pre-determined frequency range. The equalization filtering means may comprise a shelving filter for selectively boosting/attenuating either the low or high frequency range and a peaking filter for boosting/attenuating signals with the center frequency, bandwidth in-band and out-band gains being separately adjustable. The equalization filtering means may further comprise a parametric equalizer that combines one or more shelving filters and peaking filters. One main problem with currently available filtering means is the huge amount of filter coefficients to be adapted or to be optimized for an enhancement of the quality of the processed audio signal which results in very high memory requirements and a heavy processor load of the signal processing means. In the case of echo compensation filtering means, the sampling rate is therefore often limited to about 8 kHz which is considered marginally tolerable for speech signals. For equalization filtering means Infinite Response (IIR) filters are usually employed, since implementation of Finite Impulse Response (FIR) filters has not been proven successful for the above mentioned reason. Equalizing has mainly to be performed in the high and mid frequency ranges and have to be realized with a relatively high accuracy for unreduced sampling rates of, e.g., about 44 kHz for acceptable results. Thus, very long filters comprising many filter coefficients become necessary. FIR filters, however, would be advantageous, since, e.g., they are unconditional stable filters (the filter output is not fed back) and easy to design. Method for processing a digital input signal (x[n]) by a Finite Impulse Response, FIR, filtering means, comprising  Fourier transforming (12) the digital input signal (x[n]) to obtain Fourier transformed signal partitions (X The method according to claim 1, wherein  the digital input signal (x[n]) is partitioned in the time domain to obtain at least two partitions (x The method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the digital input signal (x[n]) is divided into blocks in the time domain and the convolution is performed by means of an overlap-save block convolution. The method according to claim 3, wherein the digital input signal (x[n]) is divided into blocks of equal size. The method according to claim 3, wherein the digital input signal (x[n]) is divided into blocks of different sizes. The method according to one of the preceding claims, wherein the total spectrum (Y(ω)) is obtained by using half of the number of the Fourier components of the Fourier transformed filter partitions. The method according to one of the preceding claims, wherein the Fourier transformed signal partitions (X The method according to one of the preceding claims, wherein Fourier transforming (12) each of the at least two partitions of the digital input signal and Fourier transforming (14) each of the at least two partitions of the FIR filtering are performed by Fast Fourier transformations. The method according to one of the preceding claims, wherein the digital input signal (x[n]) is an audio signal or a speech signal. Computer program product, comprising one or more computer readable media having computer-executable instructions for performing the steps of the method according to one of the claims 1 - 9. Signal processing means for processing a digital input signal, in particular, an audio signal or a speech signal, comprising a Fourier transforming means (12) configured to Fast Fourier transform the digital input signal (x[n]);  an FIR filtering means partitioned in the time domain and configured to filter the digital input signal (x[n]) by means of a fast convolution (15) to obtain spectral partitions (Y Signal processing means according to claim 11, further comprising a block dividing means configured to divide the digital input signal into blocks of equal or different sizes and wherein the FIR filtering means is configured to perform an overlap-save block convolution. Signal processing means according to claim 11 or 12, wherein the digital input signal (x[n]) is partitioned in the time domain and the Fourier transforming means (12) is configured to Fast Fourier transform each partition of the digital input signal (x[n]) separately to obtain Fourier transformed signal partitions (X Hands-free set comprising a signal processing means according to one of the claims 11 - 13. Speech recognition system or speech dialog system comprising a signal processing means according to one of the claims 11 - 13. <seperator>EP-1669349-A1<id_sep>subclassC07Dsubclass classC07class sectionCsection groupC07D211slash00group subgroupC07D211slash32subgroup New crystalline forms of donepezil base Novel crystalline forms of Donepezil base, processes for producing same, pharmaceutical compositions containing same and methods of treatment utilizing same are disclosed. FIELD AND BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The present invention is of novel crystalline forms of Donepezil base and processes for their preparation. Donepezil, (1-benzyl-4-[(5,6-dimethoxy-1-indanon)-2-yl]methylpiperidine) is represented by the formula I below. Donepezil is a piperidine derivative, which is chemically distinct from other agents in this class. It reversibly and noncompetitively inhibits centrally-active acetylcholinesterase. Donepezil was found to be effective in the treatment of dementia and Alzheimer's disease, which are related to cholinergic deficiency in the cortex and basal forebrain. Its cholinergic enhancement property is considered the reason for the improvement of the symptoms in the patients. The drug, formulated as 5 and 10 mg film coated tablets, is typically given once daily to the patients. Donepezil (as its hydrochloride salt) is marketed in the U.S. by Eisai America Inc. as Aricept®. The prophylactic and therapeutic activity of Donepezil hydrochloride for senile dementia, and in particular as a prophylactic and therapeutic agent for Alzheimer's disease, was first disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,895,841. In a method described in U.S. Patent No. 4,895,841, a crude Donepezil product was purified by column chromatography, and the concentrated desired fractions were immediately converted to a hydrochloride salt. Accordingly, this patent fails to teach isolation of Donepezil in a solid or crystalline form. Recently, three novel crystalline forms of Donepezil, referred to as forms A, B and C, were uncovered and characterized, as described in U.S. Patent No. 6,245,911. Powder diffraction patterns of these crystalline modifications of Donepezil taken from U.S. Patent No. 6,245,911 are given in Figures 1, 2 and 3. U.S. patent Nos. 5,985,864 and 6,140,321 describe five different crystalline forms of Donepezil hydrochloride (including hydrates) as well as an amorphous Donepezil hydrochloride. The different crystalline forms of Donepezil hydrochloride, described in U.S. patent Nos. 5,985,864 and 6,140,321, may be prepared either by dissolution of the Donepezil hydrochloride salt in a polar solvent (such as methanol) under heating and addition of a less polar solvent (such as isopropyl ether) upon cooling followed by filtration of the separated crystals, or by dissolution of the Donepezil base form in a polar solvent (such as methanol) under heating and addition of alcoholic solution of concentrated hydrochloric acid followed by filtration of the separated crystals. In U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2004/0034057, a method is disclosed for industrial production of a polymorphic crystal form of Donepezil hydrochloride. In recent years, solid-state properties of drugs received a great focus in the pharmaceutical industry, as a major contributing factor to both bio-availability and formulation characteristics. The ability of some substances to exist in more than one crystalline form, called polymorphism, was accredited as one of the most important solid-state property of drugs. While polymorphs have the same chemical composition, they differ in the packing and geometrical arrangement thereof, and exhibit different physical properties such as melting point, shape, color, density, hardness, deformability, stability, dissolution, and the like. Depending on their temperature-stability relationship, two polymorphs may be either monotropic or enantiotropic. For a monotropic system, the relative stability between the two solid phases remains unchanged as the temperature is changed. In contrast, in an enantiotropic system there exists a transition temperature at which the stability of the two phases reverse. Crystalline Donepezil Form IV comprising at least one of the characteristics selected from the group consisting of:  The crystalline Donepezil of claim 1, wherein said powder X-ray diffraction pattern is substantially as depicted in Figure 4. The crystalline Donepezil of claim 1, wherein said infrared spectrum is substantially as depicted in Figure 5. The crystalline Donepezil of claim 1, further  The crystalline Donepezil of claim 1, further  A process of preparing crystalline Donepezil Form IV, the process comprising:  The process of claim 6, wherein said solvent includes at least 50 % by weight of said solvent component. The process of claim 6, wherein said solvent substantially consists of said solvent component. The process of claim 6, wherein said solvent component is cyclohexane. The process of claim 6, wherein said solvent component is nitroethane. The process of claim 6, wherein said solvent component is DMF. The process of claim 6, wherein said solvent component is n-hexane. The process of claim 6, wherein said solvent component is n-butanol. The process of claim 6, wherein said solvent component is amyl alcohol. The process of claim 6, wherein said solvent component is n-octane. The process of claim 6, wherein said solvent component is ethanol. The process of claim 6, wherein said solvent component is ethyl acetate. The process of claim 6, wherein said solvent component is acetone. The process of claim 6, wherein said solvent component is acetonitrile. The process of claim 6, wherein said solvent component is butylamine. The process of claim 6, wherein said solvent component is a mixture of xylene and dichloromethane. The process of claim 21, wherein a ratio of said xylene to said dichloromethane is between about 1: 10 and about 1:2 (v/v). The process of claim 22, wherein a ratio of said xylene to said dichloromethane is about 1: 5 (v/v). The process of claim 21, wherein said contacting said Donepezil with said solvent includes dissolving said Donepezil in said xylene so as to obtain a Donepezil solution and thereafter adding said dichloromethane to said Donepezil solution. The process of claim 6, wherein said solvent component is a mixture of toluene and isopropanol. The process of claim 6, wherein said contacting said Donepezil with said solvent includes dissolving said Donepezil so as to obtain a Donepezil solution. The process of claim 26, wherein a concentration of said Donepezil in said Donepezil solution is greater than 0.001 gram/ml. The process of claim 26, wherein during said dissolving the temperature of said solvent is raised to at least about 40 °C. The process of claim 26, wherein and said crystallizing includes allowing said Donepezil solution to cool down to a temperature lower than or equal to about 25 °C. The process of claim 6, wherein said isolating comprises separating said crystalline Donepezil Form IV from said solution. The process of claim 30, further comprising, subsequent to said separating, drying said crystalline Donepezil Form IV. The process of claim 31, wherein said drying is effected at room temperature. The process of claim 6, wherein providing said Donepezil includes converting Donepezil hydrochloride to said Donepezil. The process of claim 33, wherein said converting is performed  The process of claim 34, wherein said converting comprises:  The process of claim 35, wherein said organic solvent forms a part of said solvent component. The process of claim 36, wherein said organic solvent is toluene. The process of claim 36, wherein said inorganic base is sodium carbonate. The process of claim 36, wherein said solvent component is a mixture of toluene and isopropanol. Crystalline Donepezil Form V comprising at least one of the characteristics selected from the group consisting of:  The crystalline Donepezil of claim 40, wherein said powder X-ray diffraction pattern is substantially as depicted in Figure 7. The crystalline Donepezil of claim 40, wherein said infrared spectrum is substantially as depicted in Figure 8. The crystalline Donepezil of claim 40, further  The crystalline Donepezil of claim 40, further  A process of preparing crystalline Donepezil Form V, the process comprising:  The process of claim 45, wherein said solvent includes at least 50 % by weight of said solvent component. The process of claim 45, wherein said solvent substantially consists of said solvent component. The process of claim 45, wherein said contacting said Donepezil with said solvent includes dissolving said Donepezil so as to obtain a Donepezil solution. The process of claim 48, wherein the concentration of Donepezil in said Donepezil solution is greater than 0.001 gram/mI. The process of claim 48, wherein the concentration of Donepezil in said Donepezil solution is about 0.6 gram/ml. The process of claim 48, wherein during said dissolving the temperature of said solvent is raised to at least about 50 °C. The process of claim 48, wherein said crystallizing includes allowing said Donepezil solution to cool down to a temperature lower than or equal to about 25 °C. The process of claim 45, wherein said isolating comprises separating said crystalline Donepezil Form V from said solution. The process of claim 53, further comprising, subsequent to said separating, drying said crystalline Donepezil Form V. The process of claim 54, wherein said drying is effected at room temperature. The process of claim 45, wherein said crystalline Donepezil Form V includes between 5 % and 15 % chloroform by weight. The process of claim 45, wherein providing said Donepezil includes converting Donepezil hydrochloride to said Donepezil. The process of claim 57, wherein said converting is performed  Crystalline Donepezil Form VI comprising at least one of the characteristics selected from the group consisting of:  The crystalline Donepezil of claim 59, wherein said powder X-ray diffraction pattern is substantially as depicted in Figure 11. The crystalline Donepezil of claim 59, wherein said infrared spectrum is substantially as depicted in Figure 12. The crystalline Donepezil of claim 59, further  The crystalline Donepezil of claim 59, further  A process of preparing crystalline Donepezil Form VI, the process comprising:  The process of claim 64, wherein said solvent includes at least 50 % by weight of said solvent component. The process of claim 64, wherein said solvent substantially consists of said solvent component. The process of claim 64, wherein said contacting said Donepezil with said solvent includes dissolving said Donepezil so as to obtain a Donepezil solution. The process of claim 67, wherein a concentration of Donepezil in said Donepezil solution is greater than 0.001 gram/ml. The process of claim 67, wherein a concentration of Donepezil in said Donepezil solution is about 0.6 gram/ml. The process of claim 67, wherein during said dissolving the temperature of said solvent is raised to at least about 50 °C. The process of claim 67, wherein said crystallizing includes allowing said Donepezil solution to cool down to a temperature lower than or equal to about 25 °C. The process of claim 64, wherein said isolating comprises separating said crystalline Donepezil Form VI from said solution. The process of claim 72, further comprising, subsequent to said separating, drying said crystalline Donepezil Form VI. The process of claim 73, wherein said drying is effected at room temperature. The process of claim 64, wherein providing said Donepezil includes converting Donepezil hydrochloride to said Donepezil. The process of claim 33, wherein said converting is performed  Crystalline Donepezil Form VII comprising at least one of the characteristics selected from the group consisting of:  The crystalline Donepezil of claim 77, wherein said powder X-ray diffraction pattern is substantially as depicted in Figure 14. The crystalline Donepezil of claim 75, wherein said infrared spectrum is substantially as depicted in Figure 15. The crystalline Donepezil of claim 77, further  The crystalline Donepezil of claim 77, further  A process of preparing crystalline Donepezil Form VII, the process comprising:  The process of claim 82, wherein a ratio of said methyl ethyl ketone to said n-octane is between about 1: 20 and about 1:30 (v/v). The process of claim 82, wherein a ratio of said methyl ethyl ketone to said n-octane is about 1: 25 (v/v). The process of claim 82, wherein said contacting said Donepezil with said solvent includes dissolving said Donepezil in said methyl ethyl ketone so as to obtain a Donepezil solution and thereafter adding said n-octane to said Donepezil solution. The process of claim 85, wherein a concentration of Donepezil in said Donepezil solution is greater than 0.001 gram/ml of methyl ethyl ketone. The process of claim 85, wherein a concentration of Donepezil in said Donepezil solution is about 0.48 gram/ml methyl ethyl ketone. The process of claim 85, wherein during said dissolving the temperature of said solvent is raised to at least about 50 °C. The process of claim 85, wherein said crystallizing includes allowing said Donepezil solution to cool down to a temperature lower than or equal to about 25 °C. The process of claim 82, wherein said isolating comprises separating said crystalline Donepezil Form VII from said solution. The process of claim 72, further comprising, subsequent to said separating, drying said crystalline Donepezil Form VII. The process of claim 73, wherein said drying is effected at room temperature. The process of claim 82, wherein providing said Donepezil includes converting Donepezil hydrochloride to said Donepezil. The process of claim 33, wherein said converting is performed  A process for preparing Donepezil hydrochloride comprising:  <seperator>EP-1348951-A1<id_sep>subgroupG01N27slash403subgroup sectionGsection classG01class subgroupG01N27slash414subgroup subclassG01Nsubclass Molecularly controlled dual gated field effect transistor for sensing applications A sensing device comprising a sensing layer (1) having at least one functional group that binds to the semi-conducting channel layer (3) and at least another functional group that serves as a sensor, a semi-conducting channel layer (3) having a first surface (A) and a second surface (B), which is opposite to said surface (A), a drain electrode (6), a source electrode (5), a gate electrode (4), characterised in that said source electrode (5), said drain electrode (6) and said gate electrode (4) are placed on the first surface (A) of said semi-conducting channel layer (3) and that said sensing layer (1) is on the surface (B) of said semi-conducting channel layer (3), said sensing layer being in contact with the semi-conducting channel layer and said semi-conducting channel layer having a thickness below 5000nm.   The present invention relates to the field of semiconductor devices and more particularly to hybrid organic/inorganic sensors used for the direct sensing upon double gate transistors.  A sensor is a device used to detect ions, molecules or energies of any kind. Its sensitivity and its selectivity as well as the lifetime determine the quality of a sensor. The combination of semiconductors with organic molecules is an attractive option for sensors. This combination offers the advantage to associate sensitivity and selectivity through a molecular detection layer. A mere change in electron density or electronegativity of the molecular surface-adsorbate complex, upon physical or chemical perturbation, results in a direct and fast change of electro-optical properties of the semiconductor sensor. In consideration to their direct and fast transduction principle, hybrid organic/inorganic sensors allow real-time monitoring of dynamic processes with unparalleled sensitivity. The realisation of hybrid organic/inorganic III-V semiconductors for sensor applications requires that key issues such as selectivity, sensitivity, kinetics, long term stability and reproducibility, are addressed by the appropriate surface chemistry. Sensors based on field effect transistors exhibit a third electrode (gate) located between the two main current-carrying contacts (source and drain). The gate is used to control the current through the device. The document US-A-4 777 019 discloses such a device where the sensor effect is based on changing the current passing through the device due to the absorption of molecules on the gate. The document US-A-3 831 432 describes an ungated field-effect transistor (FET) using an adsorption layer between the source and drain with two spaced apart regions of opposite conductivity type. These ungated devices are oversensitive to electrical interferences, which leads to unwanted high noise levels compared to gated devices. ISFETs are field effect devices in which an adsorbed molecule such as an ion changes the current between source and drain. ISFETs can also be used for sensing "neutral" molecules upon the use of a catalytic intermediate layer that transforms the analyte into a loaded species that can be adsorbed onto the gate area/dielectric and modulate the current through its field effect. Even a mere change in electro-affinity of the adsorbate-surface complex and a change in the electron distribution within the orbitals of the complex allow ISFETs to emit a signal. Document WO 98/19151 discloses a hybrid organic/inorganic transistor as a sensor for chemicals and light comprising a semiconductor layer, an insulation layer and a thin active layer of multifunctional organic sensing molecules directly chemisorbed between the source and drain electrical contacts. This configuration presents the disadvantage of a static use requiring an adaptation of the thickness for each type of detection. For such a sensor the active detection area is reduced in practice and the electronic part is easier exposed to the analyte substract. As far as micro-electronics and liquids are incompatible, the micro-electronics have to be insulated as much as possible from the liquid environment to avoid corrosion problems. The document Perkins2000 describes a depletion mode transducer based on silicon ISFET technology with an organic sensing layer adsorbed on the gate area. This device resembles standard ISFETs in that it is a gateless three-electrode field effect transistor. A sensing device comprising :  Sensing device as in claim 1,characterised in that an additional intermediate layer (2) is introduced between the sensing layer (1) and the semi-conducting channel layer (3). Sensing device as in claim 1,characterised in that an additional intermediate high quality dielectric layer (7) is introduced between the semi-conducting channel layer (3), the drain electrode (6), the source electrode (5) and the gate electrode (4). A device as in claim 1, characterised in that the sensing layer (1) is a self-assembling monolayer or a mixed self-assembling monolayer with preferably functionalized molecules. A device as in claim 1, characterised in that the material of the semi-conducting channel layer (3) is selected from the group consisting of Silicon, Germanium, Gallium, Arsenic, Indium, Aluminium, Phosphor or compounds thereof. A device as in any of the previous claims, characterised in that the material of the intermediate layer (2) is a crystalline layer selected from the group consisting of Ga, As, N, P, In, Al. A sensing device as in any of the previous claims, characterised in that the semi-conducting channel layer (3) has a thickness between 10 and 5000 nm. A method for the production of a sensing device comprising :  Method as in claim 8, characterised in that an additional intermediate layer is introduced between the sensing layer (1) and the semi-conducting layer (3). Method as in claim 8, characterised in that the sensing layer (1) is realised by a self-assembling monolayer or a mixed self-assembling monolayer with preferably functionalized molecules. Method as in claim 8, characterised in that the semi-conducting channel layer (3) is realised in a thickness between 10 and 5000 nm. Use of a device as in claim 1 for the detection of chemicals. Use of a device as in claim 1 for the detection of energy. <seperator>EP-1566364-A2<id_sep>subgroupF27D3slash12subgroup subclassF27Bsubclass subgroupF27D7slash04subgroup subgroupC03B27slash012subgroup groupC03B27slash00group classC03class groupC03B29slash00group subgroupC03B29slash16subgroup sectionFsection subclassC03Bsubclass groupF27B9slash00group sectionCsection classF27class subgroupF27B9slash24subgroup subclassF27Dsubclass groupF27D7slash00group subgroupC03B29slash10subgroup Air-exhausting leer for laminated glass sheets The invention relates to an air-exhausting leer for laminated glass sheets, comprising a tunnel-like leer (1), a conveyor (2), including elements (2a) for carrying laminated glass sheets in a substantially upright position through the leer (1), and air circulation ducts (3), having fans (4) and heating elements (5) associated therewith for blasting heated air between the laminated glass sheets presently on the conveyor (2) within the leer (1). The leer (1) has its sides provided with movable walls (8) for adjusting the leer width to match a given glass size. This results in an enhanced passage of air between glass sheets regardless of variations in glass size.  The invention relates to an air-exhausting leer for laminated glass sheets, comprising This type of air-exhausting leer is prior known from the Applicant's patent publication US 5,419,799. An object of the invention is to upgrade this prior known air-exhausting leer for an enhanced passage of air between glass sheets regardless of variations in glass size. This object is accomplished on the basis of characterizing features as set forth in the appended claim 1. Preferred embodiments of the invention are set forth in the dependent claims. The specification DE-198 09 582 C1 discloses a batch-type heat treatment space for performing a "Heat Soak" treatment on glass panels. Because of varying batch sizes, the space is provided with movable walls for an enhanced circulation of hot air through between individual glass sheets. The invention differs essentially from the above document in terms of the orientation, continuous operation, and heat treatment application of glasses. One exemplary embodiment of the invention will now be described in more detail with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Regarding the functions and structural details of the air-exhausting leer, which do not fall within the scope of this invention, reference is made to the Applicant's patent publication US-5,419,799. The illustrated air-exhausting leer comprises a tunnel-like leer 1, including a conveyor 2 whose retainer arms 2a support pairs of glass sheets in an upright position. The glass sheets are disposed in a lateral direction of the leer, i.e. crosswise to the conveying direction. The pairs of glass sheets presently in the conveyor 2 proceed slowly through the leer 1. Thus, the leer is continuous in operation. The leer 1 is encircled by air circulation ducts 3, having fans 4 and heating elements 5 associated therewith for blasting heated air through between the pairs of glass sheets presently on the conveyor within the leer. A novel feature in the invention is that the leer is provided on both sides with movable sealing walls 8, whereby the leer width can be adjusted to match a given glass size. This adjustment applies explicitly to the effective width of the leer 1, over which the blasting of air takes place. The walls 8 can be displaced manually or automatically. In the present case, the air is blown in between pairs of glass sheets through a floor 6 of the leer vertically upwards. The leer has its floor 6 provided with appropriate blasting slots, the suction taking place respectively by way of suction slots provided in a ceiling 7 of the leer. The air may also have a reverse circulation direction, such that the blasting takes place from the leer's ceiling and the suction from its floor. It is also possible to provide a feature for reversing the circulation direction of air. In the present case, the walls 8 consist of substantially upright panels, having their top and bottom ends provided with substantially horizontal cover screens or cover lamellae 9. These screens or lamellae 9 always cover those of the slots in the floor 6 and in the ceiling 7 which are not presently between the walls 8. The cover screens 9 can be e.g. rewindable or in the form of overlappable lamellae. Accordion-type folding and unfolding cover screens may also be useful. It may also be possible to use cover screens 9 guided the same way as rolling doors along a curving guideway to the housing wall of a leer. An air-exhausting leer for laminated glass sheets, comprising  An air-exhausting leer as set forth in claim 1, characterized in that the walls (8) consist of substantially upright panels, having their top and bottom ends provided with substantially horizontal cover screens or lamellae (9). An air-exhausting leer as set forth in claim 2, characterized in that the cover screens (9) are rewindable or the lamellae (9) are overlappable. An air-exhausting leer as set forth in any of claims 1-3, characterized in that the circulation direction of hot air is such that the blasting takes place from a floor (6) of the leer through the conveyor (2) and the suction from a ceiling (7) of the leer across the area defined between the movable walls (8). An air-exhausting leer as set forth in any of claims 1-3, characterized in that the circulation direction of hot air is such that the blasting takes place from a ceiling (7) of the leer and the suction from a floor (6) of the leer across the area defined between the movable walls (8). <seperator>EP-1550686-A1<id_sep>subgroupC08G75slash02subgroup subgroupC08G75slash04subgroup sectionCsection groupC08G75slash00group subclassC08Gsubclass classC08class PROCESS FOR THE PRODUCTION OF POLYARYLENE SULFIDE The production process of the present invention for polyarylene sulfide is  TECHNICAL FIELD The present invention relates to a production process for polyarylene sulfide, more specifically to a continuous polymerization process for polyarylene sulfide in which in the production of polyarylene sulfide particularly useful in the electronic and electric material field, the automobile field and the heat resistant material field. The present invention further relates to a continuous polymerization process for polyarylene sulfide in which the polymer can be prevented from being adhered onto a polymerization reaction bath thereby making it possible to discharge a polymer phase and a solvent phase from the polymerization reactor in a constant proportion resulting in enabling to always maintain a continuous polymerization process for polyarylene sulfide in which polyarylene sulfides (PAS) composition (concentration) in the polymerization bath at a constant value and which is useful for a raise and a stabilization in the molecular weight. BACKGROUND ART Polyarylene sulfides (it will be occasionally referred as PAS hereinafter), particularly polyphenylene sulfides (it will be occasionally referred as PPS hereinafter) out of them are known as an engineering plastic which is excellent in a mechanical strength, a heat resistance, a flame retardancy and a solvent resistance and which has good electrical characteristics and a high rigidity, and it is widely used as various materials such as materials for car parts, electronic and electric equipment parts, machine parts and the like. Such PAS resin has so far been produced by a batch process, but in recent years, demand to continuous polymerization for the purpose of improving the production efficiency has grown larger. Continuous polymerization processes for PAS are disclosed in, for example, U.S. Patent No. 4,056,515, U.S. Patent No. 4,060,520 and U.S. Patent No. 4,066,632, but there has been the problem that any of PAS obtained by the processes described above has a furiously low molecular weight. On the other hand, proposed in Japanese Patent Application Laid-Open No. 169844/1997 is a polymerization process in which a phase-separating agent (water, sodium acetate, alkali metal salts and the like) is used for the purpose of raising a molecular weight of the polymer to carry out polymerization by separating a polymerization solution into two phases of a polymer phase and a solvent phase. In the case of continuous polymerization using such phase-separating agent, there used to be brought about the problem that a polymerization reaction liquid is turned into the state that it is subjected to phase separation into a polymer phase and a solvent phase in a polymerization bath and that the polymer phase precipitates due to a difference in a specific gravity among a bottom part of the bath and a pipeline in which an effect of a shearing power caused by stirring and the like is less liable to be exerted to bring about a case where a composition ratio (concentration) of the polymer phase/the solvent phase is not maintained at a constant value during, for example, transporting the polymerization reaction liquid, which results in causing a variation in a molecular weight due to a variation in a concentration of the polymer in the polymerization bath to make it difficult to produce PAS having a stabilized molecular weight. A production process for polyarylene sulfide which is a process for continuously producing polyarylene sulfide by reacting a sulfur source with a dihalogenated aromatic compound in an aprotic organic solvent, characterized by comprising at least one polymerization reaction step in which two phases of a polymer phase and a solvent phase are separated and in which the polymer phase corresponding to a dispersion phase is a dispersion phase comprising globular droplets; and characterized by using an end terminator in the above polymerization reaction step. The production process as described in claim 1, wherein the polymerization is carried out at a temperature falling within a range of from 230 to 280°C. The production process as described in claim 1, wherein the continuous polymerization is carried out after charging the reactor in advance with a phase-separating agent and the aprotic organic solvent. The production process as described in claim 1, wherein the continuous polymerization is carried out after the sulfur source and the dihalogenated aromatic compound are subjected in advance to batch polymerization in the aprotic organic solvent to turn the polymer phase corresponding to the dispersion phase into globular droplets. The production process as described in claim 1, wherein preliminary polymerization is carried out in advance. The production process as described in claim 5, wherein the preliminary polymerization is carried out at a temperature falling within a range of from 180 to 220°C. The production process as described in claim 1 or 5, wherein an end terminator is added in the preliminary polymerization or the continuous polymerization to carry out the reaction. <seperator>EP-1652489-A2<id_sep>groupA61C13slash00group sectionAsection subclassA61Csubclass classA61class Production method of three-dimensional shape data of dental prosthesis To provide a measured object mounting tool used for producing a three-dimensional shape data of a part other than an engaging portion of the dental prosthesis by a three-dimensional measuring device. The engaging portion has a projected and/or recessed engaging part and a cross sectional shape having a shape other than the rotary body, and is projected on a jawbone side. The three-dimensional measuring device comprises a rotary table having a Z axis as an axial center, XY table fixed with a putting table, and a measuring part for measuring by one laser sensor. A measured object mounting tool (2) comprises a putting part (2b) at the lower face of a cylindrical part (2a), an inclined part (2c) at a boundary part between the side face and the upper face of the cylindrical part (2a), and a pillar part (2d) at the upper face of the cylindrical part (2a), where the pillar part (2d) has a mounting part (2e) at the upper face thereof.  A method of producing three-dimensional shape data of dental prosthesis using that tool is also disclosed.    The present invention relates to a measured object mounting tool used for placing a model of a dental prosthesis when three-dimensional coordinates of a shape of the model of the dental prosthesis, which is a measured object, are measured by a three-dimensional measuring device. Further, the present invention relates to a production method of three-dimensional data of a dental prosthesis for cutting a block when cutting the dental prosthesis by an automatic cutting machine using the measured object mounting tool so as to have the same shape as the model of the dental prosthesis, which is the measured object. As a general production method of the dental prosthesis such as an inlay, a crown, a bridge or the like, the following methods have been widely known. One method comprises casting of a metallic material by a lost wax casting method, to thereby produce the dental prosthesis. Another method comprises building up a ceramics material on a refractory model, and baking it in a vacuum electric furnace, to thereby produce a dental prosthesis for the purpose of aesthetic appreciation, such as a ceramic inlay, an all ceramic crown or the like. However, as for the work for producing a dental prosthesis by the conventional method such as the lost wax casting method, the baking by the vacuum electric furnace or the like, almost all processes are carried out by manual labor of a dental technician. Further, the process by the manual labor is remarkably fine and complicated. Thus, such the process takes remarkable time and effort, and the quality of the dental prosthesis, such as accurate or not, is influenced by the level of skill of a dental technician. Then, as a method for producing a dental prosthesis having the stable quality in a short time in more quantity without depending on manual labor of a dental technician, a dental CAD/CAM system for producing a dental prosthesis has been developed in recent years. In this technique, the dental prosthesis is produced by the steps of producing the three-dimensional shape data of the dental prosthesis such as the inlay, the crown, the bridge or the like using a three-dimensional measuring device, a computer or the like, and cutting the block for cutting of the dental prosthesis by an automatic cutting machine on the basis of the obtained three-dimensional shape data of the dental prosthesis. As such the three-dimensional measuring device in the dental CAD/CAM system, for example, a device comprising a holding base for a measured object, a rotating jig for the holding base, a changing jig for a holding base rotating shaft, a changing jig for a holding base position, and a laser measuring part, is used (for example, refer to Japanese Patent Application Laid Open No. 5-332731). Such the device is effective when a model of a small type dental prosthesis applied to only one tooth, such as the inlay, the crown or the like is measured to thereby produce three-dimensional shape data of the dental prosthesis. However, the device has a structure where only the holding base of the measured object is rotated by the rotating jig, so that there is a problem that a large size measured object such as a model of a large-sized type dental prosthesis applied to a plurality of teeth, like a bridge, a gypsum model of a plurality of remaining teeth, or the like, cannot be measured. A measured object mounting tool 2 used for providing a model 3 of a dental prosthesis when three-dimensional coordinates of a shape of the model 3 of the dental prosthesis, which is a measured object, where said model 3 of the dental prosthesis has an engaging portion 3a projected on the jawbone side which has a projected and/or recessed engaging part 3aa having a cross sectional shape other than that of the rotary body, is measured by a three-dimensional measuring device 1 comprising,  a rotary table 1a having a rotating shaft, the axis of which is Z axis,  XY table 1c, which has a placing table 1b for providing the measured object mounting tool 2 fixedly on the upper part thereof, is movable in X axial and Y axial directions, and arranged on the rotary table 1a, and a measuring part 1d for measuring the three-dimensional coordinates of the shape of the measured object mounted on the measured object mounting tool 2 on the placing table 1b, by one laser sensor 1da rotationally moving on one plane containing the Z axis around a desired point on the Z axis and moving in a Z axial direction, wherein said measured object mounting tool 2 comprises, a cylindrical part 2a,  a placing part 2b, which is provided on the lower face side of the cylindrical part 2a and formed so as to perpendicularly place the center axis T of the cylindrical part 2a with respect to an upper face of the XY table 1c on the placing table 1b on said XY table 1c,  an inclined part 2c, which is formed by a part of a conical shape having an angle of 20 to 70 degrees with respect to a center axis T of the cylindrical part 2a at a boundary part between a side face and an upper face of said cylindrical part 2a,  a pillar part 2d, which is perpendicularly erected on the upper face side of the cylindrical part 2a, formed to have a same cross sectional shape as a cross sectional shape of an engaging portion 3a of the model 3 of the dental prosthesis and formed so as to position an extension line of the center axis T of said cylindrical part 2a in the engaging portion 3a, and  a mounting part 2e, which is formed on an upper face of the pillar part 2d and has a shape for engaging with an engaging part 3aa of the engaging portion 3a of the model 3 of the dental prosthesis. A production method of three-dimensional shape data of the dental prosthesis for cutting a block B for cutting the dental prosthesis by an automatic cutting machine to have the same shape as that of the measured object, by using the three-dimensional measuring device 1  comprising,  the rotary table 1a having the rotating shaft, the axis of which is the Z axis,  the XY table 1c, which have the placing table 1b for providing the measured object mounting tool 2 fixedly on the upper part thereof, is movable in the X axial and Y axial directions, and arranged on the rotary table 1a, and  the measuring part 1d for measuring the three-dimensional coordinates of the shape of the measured object mounted on the measured obj ect mounting tool 2 on the placing table 1b, by one laser sensor 1da rotationally moving on one plane containing the Z axis around a desired point on the Z axis and moving in the Z axial direction,  wherein said production method comprises steps of:  A production method of a three-dimensional shape data of the dental prosthesis for cutting a block B for cutting the dental prosthesis by an automatic cutting machine to have the same shape as that of the measured object, by using the three-dimensional measuring device 1, comprising,  the rotary table 1a having the rotating shaft, the axis of which is the Z axis,  the XY table 1c, which has the placing table 1b for providing the measured object mounting tool 2 fixedly on the upper part thereof, is movable in the X axial and Y axial directions, and arranged on the rotary table 1a, and  the measuring part 1d for measuring the three-dimensional coordinates of the shape of the measured object, mounted on the measured object mounting tool 2 on the placing table 1b, by one laser sensor 1da rotationally moving on one plane containing the Z axis around a desired point on the Z axis and moving in the Z axial direction,  wherein said production method comprises steps of:  The production method of a three-dimensional shape data of the dental prosthesis as claimed in claim 2 or 3, wherein a both axes adjusting step of moving the XY table 1c in the X axial and/or Y axial direction so as to agree a center axis T of the cylindrical part 2a of the measured object mounting tool 2 with the Z axis is carried out in addition after carrying out the mounting tool placing step. <seperator>EP-1371778-A1<id_sep>subclassD21Hsubclass subgroupD21H19slash36subgroup sectionDsection sectionBsection groupD21H17slash00group subgroupD21H19slash40subgroup groupD21H19slash00group subgroupD21H19slash82subgroup subgroupD21H21slash16subgroup subgroupB32B27slash30subgroup subclassB32Bsubclass classD21class subgroupD21H21slash14subgroup subgroupD21H17slash37subgroup classB32class groupB32B29slash00group Coated paper sheet A coated paper sheet provided with a coating layer formed on a paper sheet substrate and containing a pigment and a binder and optionally a pre-coated polyacrylamide-containing anionic acrylic resin layer formed between the substrate and coating layer, and having a 75° specular gloss of 70% or more, an air permeability of 4000 seconds or less, a Clark stiffness, in terms of critical strength L, of 12 cm or more in a cross direction and an internal bond strength of 200 mJ or more, exhibits high resistance to blistering, excellent printer-passing property, and high quality image-recording property and useful for both of offset printing and electrophotographic duplicating or printing. The present invention relates to a coated paper sheet. More preferably, the present invention relates to a coated paper sheet having a high gloss, a high Clark stiffness determined in a cross direction (CD) of the sheet and being free from generation of blistering on the sheet when subjected to offset printing or full color printing by, for example, an electrophotographic printing system, and thus exhibiting an excellent passing property through the printing system and a superior capability of being printed with printed images having high quality, namely high clarity and sharpness. Currently, due to a strong demand of full color printing, high speed printing and high image quality printing, a large amount of coated paper sheets are consumed in the printing and publishing business. Particularly, in the field of on-demand-printing, there is a significant trend of preparing various publications, which have been prepared by the conventional printing method, by a color copying machine or a color printer which can relatively easily respond to a small order. Also, application of coated paper sheets having a high white gloss, in place of conventional paper sheets for plain paper copiers (PPC) and for printers, to electrophotographic copiers and printers, are now increasing. To respond to the above-mentioned trend, the coated paper sheets for the on-demand publishing must provide sufficient aptitude both for off-set press and for electrophotographic copying machine and printers. For the off-set press, the recording sheets must have a high surface strength (toughness) and a high blister resistance. Also, for electrophotographic full color copying machine and printers, the recording sheet must have a high stiffness and a high blister resistance. Further, to prepare high grade printing, the recording paper sheet is required to have an improved stiffness, because conventional coated paper sheets having a high white gloss are unsatisfactory for high grade printing. Generally, the coated paper sheet having a high white gloss are produced by coating a substrate paper sheet with a coating containing a white pigment having an average particle size of 2 µm or less, in a dry solid amount of 10 g/m Further, in view of various social requirements due to developments in movements for conservation of natural resources and protection of natural environment and other requirements to decrease a load of consumers on transportation of the prints, and to scale-down of the space for storing the prints in home and library, it is expected that the mass of the recording paper sheets will be further decreased. However, generally speaking, the decrease in mass of the paper sheets causes the thickness and stiffness of the paper sheets to be decreased and thus a problem, that the printed products appear to be a low grade and a difficulty in turning over the leaves of printed products and in reading the printed products increases, occurs. In the offset sheet press or the electrophotographic copying machine or printer, the stiffness of the paper sheets greatly influences on the passing property of the paper sheets through the printer, and thus it is severly controlled as an important quality item. Especially, in the electrophotographic copying machine and printer, when a paper sheets having a low stiffness are employed, the paper sheets may sometimes be fed irregularly into the printer, are not smoothly passed through the printer and may block the delivery from the printer. A coated paper sheets comprising:  The coated paper sheet as claimed in claim 1, wherein the paper sheet substrate is one pre-coated with a polyacrylamide-containing anionic acrylic resin in an amount of 0.5 to 3 g/m2. The coated paper sheet as claimed in claim 2, wherein the polyacrylamide-containing anionic acrylic resin is selected from copolymers of 50% by mass or more of acrylamide with 1 to 40% by mass of acrylonitrile and 1 to 20% by mass of at least one member selected from acrylic acid and methacrylic acid. The coated paper sheet as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the paper sheet substrate exhibits, when immersed in water having a temperature of 20°C for 5 seconds, a increase in thickness of 40% or less, calculated in accordance with the following equation: A(%) = {(T1 - T0)/T0} × 100    wherein A represents a increase in thickness of the paper sheet substrate, T0 represents a thickness of the paper sheet substrate before the immersion in water, and T1 represents a thickness of the paper sheet substrate after the immersion in water. The coated paper sheet as claimed in claim 1, wherein the paper sheet substrate has a basis mass of 50 to 110 g/m2. The coated paper sheet as claimed in claim 1 or 2, in which the paper sheet substrate has an apparent density in the range of 0.7 to 0.9, and satisfies the relationships (1) and (2): Y≦ 61X - 34Y2 ≧ -107X + 123    wherein X represents an apparent density of the paper sheet substrate, Y1 represents an air permeability of the paper sheet substrate determined in accordance with JIS P 8117 using Type B testing device, and Y2 represents a Clark stiffness of the paper sheet substrate determined in accordance with JIS P 8143, in the cross direction of the coated paper sheet. <seperator>EP-1348341-A1<id_sep>subclassA23Gsubclass subgroupA23G9slash32subgroup subgroupA23G9slash44subgroup subgroupA23G9slash52subgroup sectionAsection classA23class Frozen ice confection The invention relates to a frozen ice confection comprising ice granules, wherein said confection has a total solids content of from 4% to 10% by weight and comprising fat and emulsifier in a total amount of from 0.3% to 1.5% by weight. The invention further provides a pre-mix for the preparation of said ice confection. FIELD OF INVENTION The present invention relates to a frozen ice confection comprising ice granules and to a pre-mix for its preparation. More particularly, the invention relates to a free-flowing particulate frozen ice confection. BACKGROUND TO THE INVENTION The development of improved ice confections in particulate form is of considerable commercial interest. Frozen ice confections comprising flavoured ice granules, for example, which are both refreshing to the consumer and have an aesthetically pleasing appearance, are particularly desirable and are commercially available. A disadvantage associated with ice confections containing ice granules is that, on frozen storage, the individual granules tend to stick or clump together, forming a hardened product. Not only does this adversely affect the eating sensation experienced by the consumer but it also has a detrimental effect on the industrial processability of the product as the resulting clumped product can be difficult to handle, particularly with regard to portioning or dosing. Various approaches to the problem of overcoming the effects of clumping in frozen particulate ice products have been proposed in the art. These may be conveniently be divided into methods for dealing with the clumping once it has occurred and methods for preventing clumping occurring in the first place. Warming up the product from the frozen storage temperature to a higher temperature for a period of time can help to make the product more free flowing but this is generally undesirable where the product is intended for consumption from frozen as the changes in temperature can lead to problems with microbiological contamination. Alternatively, by controlling the temperature at which the ice granules in the frozen confection are prepared, it has been found that the problem of the granules adhering to each other can be reduced. US 5,126,156, for example, describes a method for preparing a free-flowing, frozen dairy product in which beads of product are prepared by dripping the formulation into a freezing chamber and are then stored at a temperature between -30°F and -40°F (-34°C to -40°C). In US 5,698,247, it is disclosed that if the temperature is maintained at -10°C or below during the manufacturing process (and furthermore if the granules are manufactured to be approximately spherical in shape) then ice granules in a water-ice product can be prevented from sticking together. Coating of individual ice granules with a coating suitable for consumption (such as a fat, a mixture of fats and mono- and/or diglycerides or fibrous products such as carbohydrate polymers and natural polysaccharides) in order to give improved processability is described in EP-A-1 075 794. An alternative approach is described in US 4,310,559. Here, adhesion of ice granules resulting from melting of the surface as the ice blocks are crushed to produce the granules may be prevented by contacting the granules with a refrigerant for an extremely short period of time prior to sifting. The existing approaches to overcoming the problem of ice granule clumping require complicated additional process steps or sophisticated process controls, leading to increased costs. Techniques involving coating the surface of the granules can have adverse effects on the final product eating quality. There remains therefore a continuing need for an improved method for the preparation of free flowing frozen ice confections comprising ice granules. A frozen ice confection comprising ice granules, said confection having a total solids content of from 4% to 10% by weight and comprising fat and emulsifier in a total amount of from 0.3% to 1.5% by weight. A frozen ice confection according to claim 1 wherein at least 80% by weight of the ice granules have a particle size of between 2 and 9.5mm. A frozen confection according to claim 1 having a total solids content of from 4% to 8% by weight. A frozen confection according to claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the fat is present in an amount of from 0.3% to 1.5% by weight. A frozen confection according to claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the emulsifier is present in an amount of from 0.2% to 1.5% by weight. A frozen confection according to any one of claims 1 to 5 wherein the fat is present in an amount of from 0.4% to 1.2% by weight and the emulsifier in an amount of from 0.2% to 0.8% by weight. A frozen confection according to any one of claims 1 to 6 wherein the fat is coconut oil or butter oil. A frozen composition according to any of claims 1 to 7 wherein the emulsifier is a saturated or unsaturated mono-diglyceride emulsifier. A pre-mix for a liquid composition of use in making a frozen ice confection according to any of claims 1 to 8, said pre-mix comprising a total solids content of from 4% to 10 by weight and comprising fat and emulsifier in an amount of from 0.3% to 1.5% by weight. <seperator>EP-1688889-A1<id_sep>subclassG07Csubclass sectionBsection sectionGsection groupB60R25slash00group groupG07C9slash00group subclassB60Rsubclass classB60class classG07class Method for communicating and checking authentication data between a portable transponder device and a vehicle reader unit The method enables authentication data to be communicated and checked between a transponder device (1) and a reader unit (2) of a vehicle in order to authorise access to the vehicle. The device includes a logic circuit (11), a non-volatile memory (13), an encryption and/or decryption circuit (12) and a first transmission and reception module (14, 16) of data signals (S The invention concerns a method for communicating and checking wireless authentication data between a transponder device and a reader unit preferably placed in a vehicle. The transponder device includes in particular a logic circuit, a memory, a module for transmitting and receiving data signals and an encryption and/or decryption circuit, whereas the reader unit includes a microprocessor unit, a memory, a random number generator and a module for transmitting and receiving data signals. Thus, authentication data can be exchanged between the personalised transponder device and the corresponding reader unit in order to authorise access to the vehicle. After having carried out all the necessary authentication or identification operations, the transponder device is able to control certain functions of the vehicle. These functions can be, for example, controlling the locking or unlocking of the vehicle's doors and/or windows, starting the vehicle, a vehicle immobilising function, or other commands. Wireless data transmission or communication via electromagnetic signals between a transponder device and a reader unit placed in a vehicle is well known. The signals may be low frequency or radio-frequency signals. Usually in a simple authentication mode between a transponder and a reader, the reader first transmits to the transponder, once the latter has been activated, an interrogation signal which can comprise data relating to a random number with m bits, for example 56 bits, followed by encrypted data with n bits, for example 28 bits. The transponder receives and demodulates the data signal. The transponder can decrypt encrypted data to be checked and perform a continuous encryption operation to obtain other encrypted data on the basis of a secret key and the received random number. After verifying the received encrypted data, the transponder transmits the other encrypted data to the reader so that they can be checked in the reader. Once all the verifications have been successfully carried out, the transponder can control different functions of the vehicle. The number of transmitted random number bits and the number of encrypted data bits are usually set for communicating and checking authentication data. A period of time is more or less determined for this authentication procedure, which may also be a function of the distance separating the two units. Normally, in order to be able to exchange authentication data with the vehicle reader unit, the transponder device must not be too far from the vehicle. Generally, the exchanged signal carrier frequency is a low frequency for example close to 125 kHz. For this reason, the transponder device must not be further than 2 to 3 m from the vehicle in order to execute one or several commands after authentication. Several of the encryption algorithms usually used have the drawback of being relatively complex to implement in the reader unit and mainly in the transponder device, which is generally of the passive type. The authentication method checking period is therefore relatively long. It is a main object of the present invention to provide a wireless authentication data communication and checking method between a transponder device and a reader unit by using a simplified and easy to configure encryption and/or decryption and transmission method. Method for communicating and checking wireless authentication data between a transponder device (1) and a reader unit (2) placed in particular in a vehicle in order to authorise access to said vehicle, said transponder device comprising a logic circuit (11), a non-volatile memory (13), an encryption and/or decryption circuit (12) and a first module (14, 16) for transmitting and receiving data signals (S Method according to claim 1,  Method according to claim 2,  Method according to any of the preceding claims,  Method according to any of the preceding claims,  Method according to claim 5,  Method according to any of the preceding claims, in which the transponder device includes another random number generator (15) able to produce a second random number (RN2),  Method for communicating and checking wireless authentication data between a transponder device (1) and a reader unit (2) placed in particular in a vehicle in order to authorise access to said vehicle, said transponder device comprising a logic circuit (11), a non-volatile memory (13), an encryption and/or decryption circuit (12) and a first module (14, 16) for transmitting and receiving data signals (S <seperator>EP-1707917-A2<id_sep>subclassG01Bsubclass sectionGsection subgroupG01B9slash02subgroup classG01class Method of supplying content data and playlist htereof A displacement detection apparatus, a displacement measurement apparatus and a fixed point detection apparatus can highly accurately detect a fixed point or a displacement by minimizing the influence of the disturbances of polarization due to the bend and/or the stress of the optical fiber for transmitting light emitted from a light source to a detector. The present invention provides a displacement detection apparatus including a light source that emits light, a condenser lens that gathers light emitted from the light source, an optical fiber that transmits light gathered by the condenser lens, a polarization dissolving element that dissolves polarization of light gathered by the condenser lens, a diffraction grating fitted to an object of measurement to receive and diffract light transmitted by the optical fiber, and a light receiving section that receives light diffracted by the diffraction grating, the displacement of the object of measurement being detected by the quantity of diffracted light received by the light receiving section.  The present invention contains subject matter related to This invention relates to a displacement detection apparatus for detecting a displacement by detecting diffracted light produced by a diffraction grating, a displacement measuring apparatus for measuring the quantity of displacement by utilizing interference of diffracted light produced by a diffraction grating and a fixed point detection apparatus for locating a fixed point by such diffracted light. Grating interferometers for detecting the positional displacement of a diffraction grating fitted to a moving scale by utilizing interference of light are known. Now, a known displacement detection apparatus will be described by referring to FIG 1 of the accompanying drawings. FIG. 1 illustrates a displacement detection apparatus using a transmission type diffraction grating. Referring to FIG. 1, the displacement detection apparatus includes a coherent light source section 90, a first lens 91, a first polarization beam splitter (PBS) 92, a first 1/4 wave plate 93, a reflection prism 94, a second 1/4 wave plate 95, a second lens 96, a beam splitter (BS) 97, a second PBS 98, a first photoelectric transducer 99, a second photoelectric transducer 100, a third 1/4 wave plate 101, a third PBS 102, a third photoelectric transducer 103, a fourth photoelectric transducer 104, a first differential amplifier 105, a second differential amplifier 106 and an incremental signal generator 107 and is adapted to read a transmission type diffraction grating arranged on a scale 108. The coherent light source 90 emits light to the first lens 91. The first lens 91 converges incident light to produce an appropriate beam of light and emits it to the first PBS 92. The first PBS 92 divides incident light into two beams of lights, one having an S-polarized light component and one having a P-polarized light component. S-polarized light is a polarized light component that oscillates vertically relative to the plane of incidence formed by light striking the boundary plane of light and light reflected by the boundary plane of light. P-polarized light is a polarized light component that oscillates horizontally relative to the plane of incidence. Light having an S-polarized light component is reflected by the first PBS 92, while light having a P-polarized light component is transmitted through the first PBS 92. If light from the coherent light source 90 is linearly polarized, the direction of polarization is inclined by 45 degrees before it enters the first PBS 92. By doing so, it is possible to make the intensity of light having an S-polarized light component and that of light having a P-polarized light component equal to each other. Light having an S-polarized light component that is reflected by the first PBS 92 then strikes point P of the diffraction grating recorded on the scale 108, while light having a P-polarized light component that is transmitted through the first PBS 92 strikes point Q of the diffraction grating and the two light components are diffracted in the respective directions defined by the formula below: If the angle of incidence at point P is θ A displacement detection apparatus comprising:  The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the polarization dissolving element is made of rock crystal, mica or organic resin. The apparatus according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the polarization dissolving element is arranged at the entrance end of the optical fiber. The apparatus according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the polarization dissolving element is arranged at the exit end of the optical fiber. The apparatus according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the polarization dissolving element is arranged at each of the opposite ends of the optical fiber. The apparatus according to claim 3, 4 or 5, wherein the polarization dissolving element is made integral with the corresponding end face of the optical fiber. The apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein a single mode fiber is used for the optical fiber. The apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein a polarization holding fiber is used for the optical fiber. A displacement measurement apparatus comprising:  A fixed point detection apparatus comprising:  The fixed point detection apparatus according to claim 10, wherein a point where the signal obtained comparing the quantities of light received by the two light receiving means shows an arbitrarily selected magnitude is determined to be a fixed point. A displacement detection apparatus comprising:  A fixed point detection apparatus comprising:  <seperator>EP-1400191-A2<id_sep>subclassB26Dsubclass subgroupB26F1slash14subgroup subclassB26Fsubclass sectionBsection classA47class subgroupA47C27slash14subgroup subclassA47Csubclass subgroupB26F1slash02subgroup groupA47C27slash00group subgroupB26D7slash26subgroup sectionAsection groupB26F1slash00group classB26class Perforation device for a mattress layer The present invention relates to a device (9) for providing a series of perforations (23) in a mattress layer (22), which device (9) at least comprises a punch (14) with punching pins (15) arranged in a specific matrix pattern and being positioned opposite a piercing die (16) with holes (19) arranged in rows and columns according to the same matrix pattern, in line with the aforesaid punching pins (15). The present invention furthermore relates to a method for providing a series of perforations (23) in a mattress layer (22), using such a device (9); as well as to an upper mattress (2) made of latex foam. More in particular, the present invention relates to the use of such an upper mattress (2).  The present invention relates to a device for providing a series of perforations in a mattress layer, which device at least comprises a punch with punching pins arranged in a specific matrix pattern and being positioned opposite a piercing die with holes arranged in rows and columns according to the same matrix pattern, in line with the aforesaid punching pins. The present invention furthermore relates to a method for providing a series of perforations in a mattress layer by using such a device; as well as to an upper mattress made of latex foam. More in particular, the present invention relates to the use of such an upper mattress. It is a known fact that perforations in the mattress layer can enhance the comfort of the person lying on the mattress and improve the moisture discharge of the mattress, in which connection it can be mentioned in particular that people on average secrete up to 1 litre of sweat a night while sleeping. Said moisture is discharged into the surrounding atmosphere as a result of a good ventilation of the mattress, which in itself makes the mattress feel drier, which in turn enhances the sleeping comfort of the user of the mattress. If a moist mattress is insufficiently provided with moisture-discharging means, the mattress will be susceptible to fungoid growth. The provision of additional ventilation in the mattress gives the mattress a higher sense of comfort, and in addition ensures a longer life of the mattress. Furthermore it is known in that people make frequent movements while sleeping, and the shifts in the body weight on the mattress produce a so-called pumping movement, which in turn leads to a satisfactory ventilation and canalisation of the moisture. The aforesaid perforations are usually provided according to a specific matrix pattern in the mattress layer, either over the entire surface area of the mattress layer or only in specific zones, after the latex layer has been formed. Latex foam of itself has a unique open cell structure, which means that millions of microscopically small interconnected air bubbles in the latex foam provide a good ventilating effect. There are two methods of obtaining latex foam in accordance with the well-known Dunlop process. According to a first method, moulding elements such as waffle irons are used, with latex foam being poured into a closed mould provided with aluminium pins to ensure a good heat conduction, and subsequently being vulcanised, washed and dried into an end product. As a result of the presence of the aluminium pins in the closed mould, the mattress (the end product) comprises vertical, continuous recesses that ensure a proper ventilation of the mattress. According to this method, mattresses having a thickness of up to 20 cm can be produced, with the thickness mainly being limited by the speed at which the heat can be introduced into the core of the latex material. The second method for producing latex foam according to the well-known Dunlop process is the pouring of latex foam on an endless conveyor belt, followed by vulcanisation, washing and finally drying. The maximum height of the mattress built up of latex foam is approximately 5 cm, because heat cannot be introduced into the core of the latex material sufficiently quickly due to the absence of aluminium pins on the conveyor belt. Thus, owing to the absence of the aluminium pins on the conveyor belt, the latex plate that is obtained does not have any vertical, continuous channels. In order to obtain a good ventilation in such a mattress layer yet, the mattress plate is provided with perforations. A device for providing a series of perforations in a mattress layer, which device at least comprises a punch (14) with punching pins (15) arranged in a specific matrix pattern and being positioned opposite a piercing die (16) with holes (19) arranged in rows (20) and columns (21) according to the same matrix pattern, in line with the aforesaid punching pins (15), characterized in that the piercing die (16) is substantially composed of one or more solid die blocks (18), each provided with several holes (19). A device according to claim 1, characterized in that each die block (18) comprises a matrix of holes (19) comprising several rows (20) and columns (21). A device according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that the piercing die (16) is composed of two or more die blocks (18). A device according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the piercing die (16) extends across the entire width of the zone of the mattress layer (22) that is to be perforated. A method for providing a series of perforations in a mattress layer, using a device as defined in any one or more of the preceding claims, characterized in that the method comprises the following steps:  A method according to claim 5, characterized in that steps ii)-iv) are repeated after completion of step iv). A method according to any one or more of the preceding claims 5 - 6, characterized in that steps iii)-iv) are carried out in specific zones of the mattress layer. A method according to any one or more of the preceding claims 5 - 7, characterized in that a mattress layer is provided in step i) in which specific zones at the upper side of the upper surface (2) of the mattress layer are provided with a profile (4). An upper mattress obtained by carrying out the method as defined in any one or more of the claims 5 - 8. An upper mattress made of latex foam, characterized in that the vulcanised layer (1) of latex foam is provided with perforations (6) in at least one zone (5) of the upper surface (2) thereof and with a profile (4) in at least one zone (3) of said upper surface (2). An upper mattress according to claim 10, characterized in that said zones (3-5) extend across the width of the mattress and in that the zones (5) provided with perforations (6) and the zones (3) provided with a profile (4) alternate in the longitudinal direction. An upper mattress according to claim 11, characterized in that the zones (5) provided with perforations (6) are located near those parts of a user's body (9) that secrete the most sweat, in particular the neck (10), the back (11) and the thighs (12). An upper mattress according to any one or more of the preceding claims 9 - 12, characterized in that said profile (4) is in the form of a pattern of corrugations. An upper mattress according to claim 13, characterized in that the corrugations of said pattern of corrugations extend in the crosswise direction of the mattress. An upper mattress according to any one or more of the claims 9 - 14, characterized in that the upper mattress has a closed cell structure along the upper surface (2) and the lower surface (7) thereof. Use of an upper mattress according to any one or more of the claims 9 - 15 on a spring construction. <seperator>EP-1671843-A1<id_sep>sectionBsection subgroupB60R1slash08subgroup groupB60R1slash00group subclassB60Rsubclass classB60class Outer mirror An outer mirror includes a mirror base (10) having a protrusion (11A) which sticks out outward from a side face of a vehicle body (A), a shaft (10A) being placed on the protrusion (11A), and a mirror housing (20) being coupled to the shaft (10A) in a rotatable fashion. Furthermore, the mirror housing (20) includes a mirror (30) for showing an area behind the vehicle body, and an opening (20B) on its side that faces the vehicle body.  The present invention relates to an outer mirror to be attached to a side door of a vehicle or a surrounding area of the side door. Referring to Fig. 11, a typical outer mirror includes as main components: In this outer mirror, the frame 120 with the drive unit 112 is required to be inserted into the mirror housing 113 through the opening 113A of the mirror housing 113. This insertion process is time consuming and troublesome, and there is room for improvement. In addition, it is in demand that the structure of the outer mirror is more resistant to vibrations. This is because the frame 120 is attached to the mirror housing 113 through the opening 113A by the screws 116 on the same axis as the wind blows the outer mirror when the vehicle runs. Taking the above description into account, the present invention has been conceived. An object of the present invention is to provide an outer mirror in which individual components are easy to assemble and which is superior in durability. According to a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided, an outer mirror including: In this outer mirror, through the opening, individual components are inserted into the mirror housing, and the components are fixed with clinching tools, promptly. As a result, this outer mirror brings about an advantage that the workability of installing the components is improved. In addition, the installment of the components can be performed through not only this opening but also the opening on the rear of the mirror housing. Use of the two openings in combination allows the workability to be further improved. Moreover, it is possible to overcome conventional disadvantages that the components cannot be laid out or be fixed due to non-insertion of clinching tools into the mirror housing. Furthermore, the components can be secured to the inside of the mirror housing firmly. This is because the components can be secured in at least two directions through the openings on the side and on the rear of the mirror housing. Accordingly, the installation of the components can be kept in good condition over a long period of time. According to a second aspect of the present invention, there is provided, the outer mirror in which an inside of the mirror housing is accessible externally through the opening on the side of the mirror housing. In this outer mirror, the inside of the mirror housing can be seen by naked eyes through the opening, thus enhancing the workability of, for example, fixing the frame in the mirror housing. In addition, the conditions of the components in the mirror housing can be checked easily with naked eyes without disassembling the mirror housing. According to a third aspect of the present invention, there is provided, the outer mirror in which the shaft is secured to the protrusion by at least one screw, and the screw is inserted into the protrusion from a bottom of the protrusion, and the insertion of the screw is performed through the opening on the side of the mirror housing. An outer mirror, comprising:  The outer mirror according to claim 1,  wherein an inside of the mirror housing is accessible externally through the opening. The outer mirror according to claim 1 or 2,  wherein the shaft is secured to the protrusion by at least one screw, and the screw is inserted into the protrusion from a bottom of the protrusion, and  wherein the insertion of the screw is performed through the opening. The outer mirror according to one of claims 1 to 3, further comprising an auxiliary mirror for showing an area diagonally forward the vehicle body, the auxiliary mirror sealing the opening. The outer mirror according to claim 3 or 4,  wherein the mirror housing further comprising a swelling portion sticking out from the side of the mirror housing and being positioned beneath the protrusion, the opening being formed on a side of the swelling portion which faces the vehicle body in use, the swelling portion having a through-hole on its portion that faces the protrusion, the insertion of the screw being performed via the through-hole, the through-hole being accessible externally through the opening. The outer mirror according to claim 5,  wherein the swelling portion is detachable from the mirror housing, and has a coupling portion being attachable to the mirror housing. The outer mirror according to one of claims 1 through 6, further comprising a frame for supporting the mirror and being installed in the mirror housing with at least one screw through the opening,  wherein the installation of the frame is carried out in a direction perpendicular to an attachment direction of the mirror. <seperator>EP-1271042-A2<id_sep>subgroupF16L55slash165subgroup sectionFsection subgroupF16L55slash162subgroup classF16class subgroupF16L58slash02subgroup subgroupF16L58slash10subgroup subclassF16Lsubclass Pipe liner and lining method A pipe liner and a lining method wherein a pipe liner is formed such that a part defining the outer diameter of the pipe liner (1) has a memory of a shape wherein the outer diameter is at its largest. After the pipe liner (1) has been manufactured, the outer diameter of the pipe liner (1) is reduced such that the outer diameter diminishes proportionately more than the inner diameter of the pipe liner (1). Next, the pipe liner with its reduced outer diameter is installed in a pipe (6) to be lined and the outer diameter of the pipe liner (1) is made to resume the shape remembered by the memory of the part defining the outer diameter wherein the outer diameter is at its largest.  The invention relates to a pipe liner with a reducible outer diameter to facilitate installation of the pipe liner in a pipe to be lined. The invention also relates to a lining method wherein a pipe liner is installed in a pipe to be lined, the outer diameter of the pipe liner being reduced before the pipe liner is inserted inside the pipe to be lined. Various lining methods are employed for restoring pipelines, such as underground sewer pipes. Typically, a pipe liner is bent into a smaller size. When the pipe liner is bent, the outer and inner diameters of the pipe liner are substantially equally reduced. The folded pipe is inserted into a pipe to be lined, after which the pipe liner is expanded and pressed against the pipe to be lined by means of overpressure. An example of such a solution is disclosed in US 5 091 137. The bending radius of such a folded pipe liner is quite large; therefore, it is often impossible to insert the pipe liner inside the pipe to be lined through an inspection well but some digging has to be carried out in connection with inspection wells. The large bending radius is thus caused by the great axial stiffness of such a pipe liner. EP 0 302 061 and GB 9 609 289 disclose pipe liners comprising an inner layer and a corrugated outer layer outside the inner layer. In EP 0 302 061, the inner layer is made of a flexible material; therefore, the axial stiffness of a pipe is quite low. In GB 9 609 289, in turn, an advantageous structure of a pipe enables the axial stiffness to be reduced. The low axial stiffness of such pipes enables the pipes to be installed through quite small inspection wells. The outer diameter of the pipes is smaller than the inner diameter of the pipe to be lined, and some fixing and sealing material is injected between the outer surface of the pipe liner and the inner surface of the pipe to be lined. However, such a lining considerably reduces the inner diameter of a pipeline. In addition, it is quite laborious and difficult to inject the fixing and sealing material between the pipe liner and the pipe to be lined. EP 0 302 061 further discloses a solution wherein the outer diameter of the pipe liner and the inner diameter of the pipe to be lined are equal in size. When the pipe liner is then pulled into the pipe to be lined, the outer surface of the pipe liner bends and sets against the inner surface of the pipe to be lined. In such a case, however, the friction between the pipes becomes quite high, which means that the lining procedure requires the pipe liner to be pulled extremely forcefully. This makes installation very difficult, i.e. lining is extremely difficult to implement in practice. EP 0 419 470 discloses a pipe liner comprising a wall provided with ribs arranged outside the wall. The ribs enable the wall to be quite thin, the ring stiffness of the pipe still being quite high. However, the axial stiffness of the pipe is quite low, so the bending radius of such a pipe is fairly small. The tensile strength of the wall is greater than the shear strength of the ribs. Consequently, when the pipe liner is inserted into the pipe to be lined, the ribs bend and lock the pipe liner against the inner surface of the pipe to be lined. Also in this case, when the pipe liner is being inserted into the pipe to be lined, friction becomes extremely high, so the force necessary for installing the pipe liner in the pipe to be lined has to be extremely great. A pipe liner with a reducible outer diameter to facilitate installation of the pipe liner (1) in a pipe (6) to be lined, characterized in that a part defining the outer diameter of the pipe liner (1) has a memory of a shape wherein the outer diameter is at its largest and that the outer diameter of the pipe liner is proportionately more reducible than the inner diameter of the pipe liner (1). A pipe liner as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that the outer surface of the pipe liner (1) is provided with a set of ribs (7) or a corrugation (5). A pipe liner as claimed in claim 2, characterized in that the outer diameter of the pipe liner (1) is reducible by bending or buckling the set of ribs (7) or the corrugation (5). A pipe liner as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the part defining the outer diameter of the pipe liner (1) is made of cross-linked polyolefin. A pipe liner as claimed in claim 4, characterized in that the part defining the outer diameter of the pipe liner (1) is made of cross-linked polyethene (PEX). A pipe liner as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the part defining the outer diameter of the pipe liner (1) is provided with means for directing heating at the part defining the outer diameter. A pipe liner as claimed in claim 6, characterized in that the part defining the outer diameter of the pipe liner (1) comprises filling materials for directing heating at the part defining the outer diameter. A pipe liner as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the pipe liner (1) comprises an inner layer (2), a ribbed or corrugated outer layer (4) and a foamed intermediate layer (3) therebetween. A pipe liner as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the pipe liner (1) comprises an inner layer (2) whose elasticity modulus is smaller than that of a medium-density polyethene. A pipe liner as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the pipe liner (1) comprises an inner layer (2) and an outer layer (4), the inner layer (2) being provided with means for directing heating thereto. A lining method wherein a pipe liner (1) is installed in a pipe (6) to be lined and the outer diameter of the pipe liner (1) is reduced before the pipe liner (1) is installed in the pipe (6) to be lined, characterized in that a part defining the outer diameter of the pipe liner (1) has a memory of a shape wherein the outer diameter is at its largest, that the outer diameter of the pipe liner (1) is reduced before the pipe liner is installed in the pipe to be lined such that the outer diameter of the pipe liner (1) diminishes proportionately more than the inner diameter of the pipe liner (1), that the pipe liner (1) is installed in the pipe (6) to be lined, and that the outer diameter of the pipe liner (1) is made to resume the shape remembered by the memory of the part defining the outer diameter wherein the outer diameter is at its largest. A method as claimed in claim 11, characterized in that the outer surface of the pipe liner (1) is provided with a set of ribs (7) or a corrugation (5), and the outer diameter of the pipe liner (1) is reduced mechanically by bending or buckling the set of ribs (7) or the corrugation (5). A method as claimed in claim 11 or 12, characterized in that overpressure is arranged inside the pipe liner (1) before the outer diameter of the pipe liner (1) is made to assume the shape wherein the outer diameter is at its largest. A method as claimed in claim 11 to 13, characterized in that the outer surface of the pipe liner (1) is provided with a corrugation (5), and before the outer diameter of the pipe liner (1) is made to assume the shape wherein the outer diameter is at its largest, overpressure is arranged inside the corrugation (5). A method as claimed in claim 11 to 14, characterized in that the outer diameter of the pipe liner (1) is made to resume the shape remembered by the memory of the part defining the outer diameter by heating the part defining the outer diameter. A method as claimed in claim 15, characterized in that the part defining the outer diameter of the pipe liner (1) is heated more than the rest of the pipe liner (1) when the pipe liner has already been installed in the pipe (6) to be lined. A method as claimed in any one of claims 11 to 16, characterized in that an inner layer of the pipe liner (1) is heated more than the part defining the outer diameter during or before the installation of the pipe liner (1) in the pipe to be lined (6). A method as claimed in any one of claims 11 to 17, characterized in that a rubber or elastomer seal is arranged outside the pipe liner (1) before the outer diameter of the pipe liner (1) is made to resume the shape wherein the outer diameter is at its largest, and, subsequently, the outer diameter of the pipe liner (1) is made to assume the shape wherein the outer diameter is at its largest, the seal thus being pressed between the outer surface of the pipe liner (1) and the surface outside the seal. <seperator>EP-1552771-A1<id_sep>subgroupA47C31slash02subgroup groupA47C31slash00group classA47class subgroupA47C7slash28subgroup subgroupA47C7slash02subgroup subclassA47Csubclass sectionAsection groupA47C23slash00group subgroupA47C7slash22subgroup subgroupA47C23slash26subgroup CONSTRUCTION FOR ATTACHING NET MEMBER TO CHAIR SEAT OR BACKREST FRAME A net member is stretched over a frame for a seat and backrest of a chair. An engagement member attached to the end of the net member is inserted into an engagement groove on the lower surface of the basic frame. A binding frame is pressed onto the lower surface of the basic frame and the net member is fixed between the basic frame and the binding frame by the engagement piece. Warps are woven or knitted in a mesh structure over the seat and backrest to wefts comprising elastic yarns and chenille yarns.  The present invention relates to the structure for mounting a net member to a frame for a seat and the backrest of a chair, a method of mounting the net member to the frame and a chair with a mesh in which warps are woven or knitted with wefts. In a conventional seat structure of a chair in which a high tension elastic net member including a porous plate is stretched over a closed-loop seat frame, the outer periphery of the net member is put over the upper outer side surface of the seat frame and folded into the lower surface of the seat frame. The folded portion is fixed to the seat frame by a screw. Japanese Patent Publications No.11-244103 and 2002-165672 disclose the structure. However, it is not an easy procedure to mount the outer periphery of the net member to the seat frame at non-uniform tensile force. It requires much labor, and owing to non-uniform tensile force. Wrinkles and slacks occur in connected portions of the net member. Excessive tensile force is applied to the net member around a bonding bolt which causes cracking. Furthermore, there is a mesh-stretched chair as disclosed in Japanese Patent Publication No.8-507935. However, elastomonomer filaments 374 are crossed to strands 376 in the chair causing slippage. The mesh pattern which appears on the surface is not only monotypic but also likely to slip, so that it is difficult to obtain frictional force enough to hold a sitting person. Tensile strength is not suitably applied to the seat in a depth direction and the backrest in a vertical direction. So the seat and backrest do not provide enough elasticity. In view of the disadvantages, it is a principal object of the present invention to provide the structure for stretching a net member to a frame of a seat or backrest of a chair by a relatively simple low uniform tensile force. It is another object of the present invention to provide a method of stretching a net member over a frame of a seat or backrest of a chair uniformly and simply. It is a further object of the present invention to provide a mesh-stretched chair having suitable comfort and appearance without slippage of fibers to provide frictional enough force to hold a sitting person. According to one aspect of the invention, there is provided the structure for mounting a net member to a basic frame for a seat or backrest of a chair, comprising: According to another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method of mounting a net member to a basic frame for a seat or backrest of a chair, comprising the steps of: According to further aspect of the present invention, there is provided a chair having a mesh which is woven or knitted over a frame for a seat or backrest, said mesh comprising: The foregoing and other features and advantages of the invention will become more apparent from the following description with respect to embodiments as shown in appended drawings wherein: The structure for mounting a net member to a basic frame for a seat or backrest of a chair, comprising:  The structure as claimed in claim 1 wherein the engagement groove and the engagement piece have a flexible engagement claw and an engagement recess to be elastically engaged with each other thereby preventing the engagement piece from coming out of the engagement groove. The structure as claimed in claim 1 wherein the engagement piece is L-shaped having a horizontal portion which supports pressing force of the binding frame and is strongly pressed between the basic frame and the binding frame. The structure as claimed in claim 1 wherein the engagement groove has a vertical through-bore at top. The structure as claimed in claim 1 wherein the basic frame and the binding frame have a form-fitting groove and a projection respectively, the net member being put between the form-fitting groove and the projection to apply tension to the net member when the basic frame is connected to the binding frame. The structure as claimed 1 wherein a peripheral groove is formed at an upper end of an outer periphery of the basic frame, an edge member being engaged on the peripheral groove thereby applying further outward tensile force to the net member. The structure as claimed in claim 6 wherein the edge member is made of a wire of flexible synthetic resin. The structure as claimed in claim 6 wherein the peripheral groove is formed over a whole circumference of the basic frame, the edge member being provided over the whole circumference of the basic frame. The structure as claimed in claim 6 wherein a protrusion is formed at an upper end of the peripheral groove, said edge member being held with the net member between the protrusion and a peripheral flange of the binding frame. A method of mounting a net member to a basic frame for a seat or backrest of a chair, comprising the steps of:  A method as claimed in claim 10 wherein the engagement groove has a flexible engagement claw at a lower end, the engagement piece being prevented from coming out by the claw when it is pushed into the engagement groove in the step of pressing. A method as claimed in claim 10, after the step of pressing, further comprising the step of inserting an edge member into a peripheral groove on an upper end of an outer peripheral surface of the basic frame to apply further tensile force to the net member. A chair having a mesh which is woven or knitted over a frame for a seat or backrest, said mesh comprising:  A chair as claimed in claim 13 wherein the warps are made of polyester multifilament. A chair as claimed in claim 13 wherein the elastic yarns are made of polyether ester elastic yarns. A chair as claimed in claim 13 wherein the chenille yarns are made of polyester fiber core yarns twisted by filament-processed fluffs. A chair as claimed in claim 13 wherein the chenille yarns appear more than warps in a front surface of the mesh. A chair as claimed in claim 13 wherein the elastic yarns stretched over the seat is higher in density than those stretched over the backrest. A chair as claimed in claim 13 wherein the warps comprise knitted hexagonal mesh structure in which a plurality of elastic yarns are knitted as wefts in straight portions of the hexagonal mesh structure and a plurality of chenille yarns are knitted as wefts in tilted portions of the hexagonal structure. <seperator>EP-1591553-A1<id_sep>classC23class sectionHsection subclassC23Csubclass classH01class subgroupH01G9slash042subgroup subclassH01Gsubclass sectionCsection subgroupH01G9slash045subgroup subgroupC23C14slash06subgroup Process for producing an electrode coated with titanium nitride The present invention is directed to a process for producing an electrode, in particular a current collector electrode for capacitors, supercapacitors, batteries or the like, comprising a substrate and at least one conductive layer, in which the surface of the substrate is purified and subsequently a layer of titanium nitride is vapor deposited on the surface of the substrate, wherein the vapor deposition is effected by exposing the substrate to a plasma comprising a reactive atmosphere of ionized nitrogen with or without argon or hydrogen and evaporated titanium, and, wherein the titanium vapor is generated by means of an electric arc. Furthermore, the present invention relates to an electrode obtainable by this process as well as to the use thereof. The present invention relates to a process for producing an electrode, in particular a current collector electrode for capacitors, supercapacitors, batteries or the like, comprising a substrate and at least one conductive layer, to an electrode obtainable by this process as well as to the use thereof. It is known in the field of electrolytic capacitors to use metal foils as cathodes. Usually the metal foils are chemically or electrochemically etched in order to increase the surface of the metal foil and thereby increasing the specific capacity of the foil. Due to the etching of the foil the electrical resistance e.g. of an aluminium foil is increased by a certain factor in comparison to the non-etched foil, wherein the quantity of this factor depends on the amount of metal removed during the etching process. However, due to the removal of metal during the etching the mechanical strength of the metal foil decreases correspondingly. Therefore, a couple of alternative processes for increasing the surface of metal foils were suggested making no use of chemical or electrochemical etching. EP 0 974 989 A1 discloses a process for increasing the capacity of electrodes suitable for capacitors and the like, in which the metal foil is firstly immersed in a solution containing graphite and subsequently dried at elevated temperatures. Furthermore, EP 0 966 008 A2 suggests a method for producing an anode by creating a porous layer with an increased surface roughness on an aluminum foil as a substrate in a vacuum comprising vapor deposition of an alloy comprising aluminum and a valve metal, such as titanium, tantalum, zirconium or the like, in different process steps under different angles of incidence. Additionally, a process making use of the deposition of a layer consisting of metallic titanium on a metal foil for increasing the surface roughness is known from EP 1 122 751 A1. However, each of the aforementioned processes provides the disadvantage that either it is expensive, the resulting electrodes have an unsatisfactorily high electrical resistance, the deposit layer is unsatisfactorily adhered to the substrate or the deposit layer is unsatisfactorily inhomogeneous. US 6,201,685 discloses a process for coating a metal foil with thin layers of metal carbide, metal boride or metal nitride, such as titanium nitride, wherein the deposition is effected by reactive sputtering, conventional sputtering, reactive evaporation or by means of molecular beams. A disadvantage of these processes is, however, that the stoichiometry and quantity of the metal nitride, metal carbide or metal boride deposited on the substrate strongly depends on the pressure of the atmosphere used for the deposition so that the process is difficult to control. In addition, the adhesion of the deposit layer to the substrate is capable of improvement. Therefore it is the object of the present invention to provide a process for producing an electrode comprising a substrate and at least one conductive layer, which overcome the aforementioned drawbacks as well as to provide an electrode with an excellent minimal electrical resistance, whose deposit layer is excellently adhered to the substrate. Process for producing an electrode, in particular a current collector electrode for capacitors, supercapacitors, batteries or the like, comprising a substrate and at least one conductive layer, in which the surface of the substrate is purified and subsequently a layer of titanium nitride is vapor deposited on the surface of the substrate, wherein the vapor deposition is effected by exposing the substrate to a plasma comprising a reactive atmosphere of ionized nitrogen with or without argon or hydrogen and evaporated titanium, and, wherein the titanium vapor is generated by means of an electric arc. Process according to claim 1, characterized in that a momentaneous or a continuous electric arc is generated by means of opposite electrodes with the titanium source connected to the negative pole. Process according to claim 2 or 1, characterized in that the arc voltage lies between 10 and 200 volt. Process according to any of the previous claims, characterized in that the bias voltage lies between 40 and 300 volt. Process according to any of the previous claims, characterized in that the evaporation of titanium is effected in a vacuum chamber. Process according to any of the previous claims, characterized in that the pressure in the chamber during the evaporation is adjusted between 0,1 and 50 Pa. Process according to any of the previous claims, characterized in that the substrate during the deposition step is polarized more negatively than the cathode, which is used for the generation of the electric arc. Process according to any of the previous claims, characterized in that the reactive atmosphere consists of molecular ionized nitrogen, a mixture of molecular ionized nitrogen and argon or a mixture of molecular ionized nitrogen and molecular ionized hydrogen. Process according to any of the previous claims, characterized in the substrate is an aluminium foil preferably with a purity between 98 and 99,99%. Process according to any of the previous claims, characterized in that the substrate provides a thickness of between 15 and 100 µm and/or the conductive layer provides a thickness of between 0,1 and 10 µm. Process according to any of the previous claims, characterized in that the temperature of substrate is adjusted between 20 and 250 °C during exposure to the plasma. Process according to any of the previous claims, characterized in that the layer of titanium nitride is vapor deposited on one or both sides of the substrate. Electrode obtainable by a process according to any of claims 1 to 12. Electrode according to claim 13, characterized in that the deposit layer comprise titanium nitride with a stoichiometry according to the following general formula:TixNy,    wherein x is a number between 0,5 and 2 and y lies between 0,1 and 2. Use of the electrode according to claim 14 as a current collector for supercapacitors. Use of the electrode in batteries. Amended claims in accordance with Rule 86(2) EPC. 1. Process for producing an electrode, in particular a current collector electrode for capacitors, supercapacitors, batteries or the like, comprising an aluminium foil as a substrate and at least one conductive layer, in which the surface of the substrate is purified and subsequently a layer of titanium nitride is vapor deposited on the surface of the substrate, wherein the vapor deposition is effected by exposing the substrate to a plasma comprising a reactive atmosphere of ionized nitrogen with or without argon or hydrogen and evaporated titanium, and, wherein the titanium vapor is generated by means of an electric arc. 2. Process according to claim 1, characterized in that a momentaneous or a continuous electric arc is generated by means of opposite electrodes with the titanium source connected to the negative pole. 3. Process according to claim 2 or 1, characterized in that the arc voltage lies between 10 and 200 volt. 4. Process according to any of the previous claims, characterized in that the bias voltage lies between 40 and 300 volt. 5. Process according to any of the previous claims, characterized in that the evaporation of titanium is effected in a vacuum chamber. 6. Process according to any of the previous claims, characterized in that the pressure in the chamber during the evaporation is adjusted between 0,1 and 50 Pa. 7. Process according to any of the previous claims, characterized in that the substrate during the deposition step is polarized more negatively than the cathode, which is used for the generation of the electric arc. 8. Process according to any of the previous claims, characterized in that the reactive atmosphere consists of molecular ionized nitrogen, a mixture of molecular ionized nitrogen and argon or a mixture of molecular ionized nitrogen and molecular ionized hydrogen. 9. Process according to any of the previous claims, characterized in the substrate is an aluminium foil with a purity between 98 and 99,99%. 10. Process according to any of the previous claims, characterized in that the substrate provides a thickness of between 15 and 100 µm and/or the conductive layer provides a thickness of between 0,1 and 10 µm. 11. Process according to any of the previous claims, characterized in that the temperature of substrate is adjusted between 20 and 250 °C during exposure to the plasma. 12. Process according to any of the previous claims, characterized in that the layer of titanium nitride is vapor deposited on one or both sides of the substrate. 13. Electrode obtainable by a process according to any of claims 1 to 12. 14. Electrode according to claim 13, characterized in that the deposit layer comprise titanium nitride with a stoichiometry according to the following general formula: TixNy,    wherein x is a number between 0,5 and 2 and y lies between 0,1 and 2. 15. Use of the electrode according to claim 14 as a current collector for supercapacitors. 16. Use of the electrode in batteries. <seperator>EP-1329318-A2<id_sep>subgroupB41J2slash14subgroup sectionBsection subclassB41Jsubclass subgroupB41J2slash205subgroup subgroupB41J2slash055subgroup subgroupB41J2slash045subgroup classB41class Fluid ejecting device with drop volume modulation capabilities An inkjet printhead has a piezoelectric module including a plate with an integrated ink chamber in flow communication with an integrated ink supply manifold and an integrated ink orifice. The ink chamber includes a main channel that connects the ink supply manifold to the ink orifice, and multiple piezoelectric actuators depending from the main channel and spaced apart by ink subchannels in flow communication with the main channel. The printhead also includes a ground electrode in contact with a first end of each of the actuators, and a cover plate bonded to the piezoelectric plate to seal the chamber and the manifold, the cover plate being in contact with a control electrode and configured to conduct control signals from the control electrode to the actuators. The invention also includes an inkjet printhead with means for piezoelectric actuation capable of both vertical and horizontal deformation in direct ,communication with means for supplying ink from an ink manifold to an ink ejection orifice, and control means for supplying signal to the piezoelectric actuation means. A method of controlling ink drop volume in an inkjet printhead including the steps of selectively activating one or more piezoelectric actuators in an array of piezoelectric actuators in direct communication with an ink supply to create a pressure wave that propagates through the ink supply and ejects an ink drop the volume of which is dependent on the number of actuators that are activated is also disclosed. An inkjet printer having the inventive printhead is further disclosed.  The present invention relates to a piezoelectric fluid ejecting device, such as an inkjet printhead and methods of manufacturing the same. More particularly, the present invention relates to fluid ejecting devices in which the drop volume can be modulated. There is a need for a piezo-electric printhead in which drop volume can be modulated. Desirably, such a printhead is configured to permit ready access to internal as well as external contacts between the actuators and electrodes. Most desirably, such a printhead can be fabricated in a "stacked" configuration to achieve high resolution print quality. It is also contemplated that such a device can be used to eject fluids other than ink, such as adhesives and the like. The present invention meets the above needs and has additional benefits as described in detail below. In one embodiment, this invention achieves fluid drop formation and ejection with multiple actuators within a given fluid chamber. Each actuator is permitted to deform in multiple directions that all contribute to chamber volume change and ejection of the drop. In a current embodiment, such a device is configured for formation and ejection of ink drops. Other fluids are, however, contemplated, such as adhesives and the like. Additionally, the multiple actuators can be selectively deformed to vary drop volume to achieve, for example, gray-scale printing. Varying drop volume during printing has to date been difficult to achieve for most ink jet printing methods, including thermal ink jet printing. The multiple actuators also allow for large print height without stitching. Further, the instant invention does not require a diaphragm, which often is fragile and is a common source of failure in piezoelectric printheads. In typical piezoelectric printheads, the diaphragm is made of a pliable material and is connected to a piezoelectric element. When the piezoelectric element changes shape in response to a signal, it manipulates the diaphragm, which causes a pressure wave to propagate through the ink chamber and results in the ejection of ink through an orifice. Additional benefits of one or more embodiments of the present invention include a highly integrated structure for low cost manufacturing, an easy-to-stack design for high-resolution printing, few or no thermal expansion issues between the piezoelectric material and a diaphragm, and excellent ink compatibility and corrosion resistance. In one embodiment, the present invention contemplates an inkjet printhead including a piezoelectric module having a plate with an integrated ink chamber in flow communication with an integrated ink supply manifold and an integrated ink orifice. The ink chamber includes a main channel that connects the ink supply manifold to the ink orifice, and multiple piezoelectric actuators that depend from the main channel and are spaced apart by ink subchannels that are in flow communication with the main channel. This embodiment further includes a ground electrode that is in contact with a first end of each of the actuators and a cover plate that is bonded to the piezoelectric plate. The cover plate seals the chamber and the manifold. The cover plate is in contact with a control electrode and is configured to conduct control signals from the control electrode to the actuators. An inkjet printhead comprising:  The inkjet printhead of claim 1 wherein the module comprises multiple ink chambers disposed on the piezoelectric plate, with successive chambers being separated by a chamber wall. The inkjet printhead of claim 2 wherein the ink chambers are in flow communication with a common ink supply manifold. The inkjet printhead of claim 2 or 3 wherein the chamber walls are separated by a cut between successive chambers. The inkjet printhead of at least one of the preceding claims wherein an elastic membrane is disposed between the cover plate and the piezoelectric plate. The inkjet printhead of claim 5 wherein the elastic membrane is electrically conductive. The inkjet printhead of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the actuators can be selectively activated to modulate ink drop size. The inkjet printhead of at least one of the preceding claims further comprising a restrictor disposed between the manifold and the main channel. The inkjet printhead of at least one of the preceding claims further comprising multiple modules stacked together on a printhead. The inkjet printhead of claim 9 wherein the stacked modules are offset from each other. The inkjet printhead of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the actuators are disposed perpendicular to the main channel. The inkjet printhead of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the actuators are elongated toward the ink orifice. The inkjet printhead of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the first end of each actuator is tapered. The inkjet printhead of at least one of claims 2 to 13 wherein the actuators are shorter than the surrounding chamber walls. The inkjet printhead of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the actuators are arranged parallel to each other. An inkjet printhead comprising:  The inkjet printhead of claim 16 further comprising means for restricting the flow of ink between the ink supply means and the manifold. The inkjet printhead of claim 16 or 17 wherein multiple piezoelectric actuation means are stacked together on a single printhead. The inkjet printhead of claim 18 wherein the stacked actuation means are offset from each other. A method of controlling ink drop volume in an inkjet printhead comprising the steps of:  The method of claim 20 wherein the actuators are selectively activated by a control electrode electrically connected to the actuators. The method of claim 21 wherein an electrically conductive elastic membrane conducts signals from the control electrode to the actuators to selectively activate same. An inkjet printer having the printhead of claim 1. A fluid ejecting device comprising:  The fluid ejecting device of claim 24 wherein the piezoelectric module comprises multiple fluid chambers disposed on the piezoelectric plate, with successive chambers being separated by a chamber wall. The fluid ejecting device of claim 25 wherein the fluid chambers are in flow communication with a common fluid supply manifold. The fluid ejecting device of claim 25 or 26 wherein the chamber walls are separated by a cut between successive chambers. The fluid ejecting device of at least one of claims 24 to 27 wherein an elastic membrane is disposed between the cover plate and the piezoelectric plate. The fluid ejecting device of at least one of claims 24 to 28 wherein the actuators can be selectively activated to modulate drop size. The fluid ejecting device of at least one of claims 24 to 29 further comprising multiple modules stacked together. A method of controlling fluid drop volume in a fluid ejecting device comprising the steps of:  The method of claim 31 wherein the actuators are selectively activated by a control electrode electrically connected to the actuators. The method of claim 32 wherein an electrically conductive elastic membrane conducts signals from the control electrode to the actuators to selectively activate same. <seperator>EP-1378905-A1<id_sep>classH03class sectionHsection groupG10L19slash00group groupG10L11slash00group classH04class subgroupH03M13slash29subgroup groupH04L9slash00group sectionGsection subgroupG11B20slash10subgroup subgroupH03M13slash27subgroup subgroupH04L9slash08subgroup groupG11B20slash00group subclassH03Msubclass classG11class classG10class subclassG10Lsubclass subclassG11Bsubclass subgroupG11B20slash12subgroup subgroupH03M13slash15subgroup subgroupG11B20slash18subgroup subclassH04Lsubclass groupH03M13slash00group RECORDING MEDIUM, RECORDING METHOD AND APPARATUS, REPRODUCING METHOD AND APPARATUS, DATA TRANSMISSION METHOD, AND DATA DECRYPTING METHOD A recording medium having an area in which data that has been encoded with a first error correction code is recorded, wherein data that can be decoded with a second error correction code that is different from the first error correction code is recorded to the area along with the data that has been encoded with the first error correction code, and wherein the data that can be decoded with the second error correction code composes at least part of encryption key data.  The present invention relates to a recording medium on which content data is recorded, a recording method, a recording apparatus, a reproducing method, a reproducing apparatus, a data transmitting method, and a data decrypting method. Since optical discs such as a CD (Compact Disc) and a CD-ROM (Compact Disc Read Only Memory) are easy to handle and are produced at relatively low cost, they have been widely used as recording mediums for storing data. In recent years, a CD-R (Compact Disc Recordable) disc, on which data can be recorded once, and a CD-RW (Compact disc Rewritable) disc, on which data can be rewritten, have come out. Thus, data can be more easily recorded on such optical discs than before. As a result, optical discs such as a CD-DA (Compact Disc Digital Audio) disc, a CD-ROM disc, a CD-R disc, and a CD-RW disc have become the mainstream of data recording mediums. In addition, in recent years, audio data is compressed according to compression-encoding systems such as the MP3 (MPEG1 Audio Layer-3) and the ATRAC (Adaptive TRansform Acoustic Coding) 3 and recorded on the CD-ROM disc, the CD-R disc, the CD-RW disc, and so forth. However, as the CD-R disc and the CD-RW disc have come out, data recoded on the CD-DA disc can be more easily copied than before. As a result, a problem about copyright protection has arisen. Thus, when content data is recorded to the CD-R disc or the CD-RW disc, it is necessary to take measures to protect content data. As one method for protecting content data recorded on the CD-DA disc, the content data is encrypted and recorded on the CD-DA disc. When content data is encrypted and recorded on a disc, unless key data with which the content data is decrypted is obtained, the content data cannot be decrypted. Thus, the content data can be protected. However, when encryption key data and a disc are separately distributed, a particular system is required and becomes troublesome. Thus, it is preferred to bury encryption key data on a disc. However, it was difficult to record encryption key data on a disc in such a manner that the encryption key data cannot be easily known. That is because it is necessary to prevent buried encryption key data from adversely affecting a conventional CD player, which has been widely used. Therefore, an object of the present invention is to provide a recording medium, a recording method, a recording apparatus, a reproducing method, a reproducing apparatus, a data transmitting method, and a data decrypting method that allow copyright to be securely protected using buried encryption key data with which encrypted data is decrypted. Claim 1 of the present invention is a recording medium having an area in which data that has been encoded with a first error correction code is recorded, wherein data that can be decoded with a second error correction code that is different from the first error correction code is recorded to the area along with the data that has been encoded with the first error correction code, and wherein the data that can be decoded with the second error correction code composes at least part of encryption key data. A recording medium having an area in which data that has been encoded with a first error correction code is recorded,    wherein data that can be decoded with a second error correction code that is different from the first error correction code is recorded to the area along with the data that has been encoded with the first error correction code, and    wherein the data that can be decoded with the second error correction code composes at least part of encryption key data. The recording medium as set forth in claim 1,    wherein the data that can be decoded with the second error correction code is recorded to the area along with the data that has been encoded with the first error correction code so that when the data that is read from the area is decoded with the second error correction code, the decoded data represents a predetermined error pattern corresponding to the encryption key data. The recording medium as set forth in claim 2,    wherein the data that can be decoded with the second error correction code is data that can be also decoded with the first error correction code. The recording medium as set forth in claim 1,    wherein at least part of the data that can be decoded with the second error correction code is dummy data. The recording medium as set forth in claim 1,    wherein the first error correction code and the second error correction code are used to encode at least two encoding sequences in respective directions, the first error correction code and the second error correction being different only in the encoding sequences, the data that can be decoded being data of which predetermined data is repeated as one unit of one of the two encoding sequences in the respective directions. The recording medium as set forth in claim 1,    wherein the first error correction code and the second error correction code are a code with which a C1 sequence in a vertical direction is encoded and a code with which a C2 sequence in a diagonal direction is encoded, respectively, the first error correction code and the second error correction code being different in their interleave lengths, the data that can be decoded being predetermined data repeated as one unit of the C1 sequence. The recording medium as set forth in claim 6,    wherein the data that can be decoded contains an error of the C1 sequence. The recording medium as set forth in claim 6,    wherein the portion of which the data encoded with the first error correction code is recorded along with the data that can be decoded in such a manner that all high order bits have the same values. The recording medium as set forth in claim 6,    wherein the portion of which the data encoded with the first error correction code is recorded along with the data that can be decoded in such a manner that when the portion is reproduced, an audible band sound is generated. The recording medium as set forth in claim 9,    wherein the portion of which the data encoded with the first error correction code is recorded along with the data that can be decoded in such a manner that data 0s and 1s are repeated in a predetermined period. A recording method for a recording medium, comprising the steps of:  The recording method for the recording medium as set forth in claim 11,    wherein the encryption key data contains data that represents whether or not data that has been read from the area and decoded with the second error correction code has an error. The recording method for the recording medium as set forth in claim 12,    wherein the data that can be decoded with the second error correction code is data that can be also decoded with the first error correction code. The recording method for the recording medium as set forth in claim 11,    wherein the second recording step is performed by recording the data that can be decoded with the second error correction code to the area along with the data that has been encoded with the first error correction code so that when the data that is read from the area is decoded with the second error correction code, the decoded data represents a predetermined error pattern corresponding to the encryption key data. The recording method for the recording medium as set forth in claim 11,    wherein at least part of the data that can be decoded with the second error correction code is dummy data. The recording method for the recording medium as set forth in claim 11,    wherein the first error correction code and the second error correction code are used to encode at least two encoding sequences in respective directions, the first error correction code and the second error correction being different only in the encoding sequences, the data that can be decoded being data of which predetermined data is repeated as one unit of one of the two encoding sequences in the respective directions. The recording method for the recording medium as set forth in claim 11,    wherein the first error correction code and the second error correction code are a code with which a C1 sequence in a vertical direction is encoded and a code with which a C2 sequence in a diagonal direction is encoded, respectively, the first error correction code and the second error correction code being different in their interleave lengths, the data that can be decoded being predetermined data repeated as one unit of the C1 sequence. The recording method for the recording medium as set forth in claim 17,    wherein the data that can be decoded contains an error of the C1 sequence. The recording method for the recording medium as set forth in claim 17,    wherein the second recording step is performed by recording the portion of which the data encoded with the first error correction code along with the data that can be decoded in such a manner that all high order bits have the same values. The recording method for the recording medium as set forth in claim 17,    wherein the second recording step is performed by recording the portion of which the data encoded with the first error correction code along with the data that can be decoded in such a manner that when the portion is reproduced, an audible band sound is generated. The recording method for the recording medium as set forth in claim 20,    wherein the second recording step is performed by recording the portion of which the data encoded with the first error correction code along with the data that can be decoded in such a manner that data 0s and 1s are repeated in a predetermined period. A recording method for a recording medium, comprising the step of:  The recording method for the recording medium as set forth in claim 22,    wherein the recording step is performed by generating the encryption key data with a generation function having a factor of data that can be decoded with the second error correction code and recording the plurality of pieces of the data with the pattern represented by the generated encryption key data. The recording method for the recording medium as set forth in claim 23,    wherein whenever the data is recorded to the recording medium, the generation function is changed. The recording method for the recording medium as set forth in claim 22,    wherein whenever the data is recorded to the recording medium, the recording pattern of the plurality of pieces of the data is changed. The recording method for the recording medium as set forth in claim 22,    wherein the plurality of pieces of the data composes a part of the encryption key data. The recording method for the recording medium as set forth in claim 22,    wherein the recording step is performed by recording the data that has been encoded with the first error correction code along with the plurality of pieces of data that can be decoded with the second error correction code so that when data that is read from the area is decoded with the second error correction code, a predetermined error pattern is obtained. The recording method for the recording medium as set forth in claim 22,    wherein the first error correction code and the second error correction code are used to encode at least two encoding sequences in respective directions, the first error correction code and the second error correction being different only in the encoding sequences, the data that can be decoded being data of which predetermined data is repeated as one unit of one of the two encoding sequences in the respective directions. The recording method for the recording medium as set forth in claim 22,    wherein the first error correction code and the second error correction code are a code with which a C1 sequence in a vertical direction is encoded and a code with which a C2 sequence in a diagonal direction is encoded, respectively, the first error correction code and the second error correction code being different in their interleave lengths, the data that can be decoded being predetermined data repeated as one unit of the C1 sequence. The recording method for the recording medium as set forth in claim 29,    wherein the data that can be decoded contains an error of the C1 sequence. The recording method for the recording medium as set forth in claim 29,    wherein the second recording step is performed by recording the portion of which the data encoded with the first error correction code along with the data that can be decoded in such a manner that all high order bits have the same values. The recording method for the recording medium as set forth in claim 29,    wherein the second recording step is performed by recording the portion of which the data encoded with the first error correction code along with the data that can be decoded in such a manner that when the portion is reproduced, an audible band sound is generated. The recording method for the recording medium as set forth in claim 32,    wherein the second recording step is performed by recording the portion of which the data encoded with the first error correction code along with the data that can be decoded in such a manner that data 0s and 1s are repeated in a predetermined period. A recording apparatus for a recording medium, comprising:  The recording apparatus for the recording medium as set forth in claim 34,    wherein the plurality of pieces of data that can be also decoded with the second error correction code is recorded as a pattern that represents a part of the encryption key data to the recording medium along with the data that has been encoded with the first error correction code. The recording apparatus for the recording medium as set forth in claim 35,    wherein the generating portion is configured to generate the encryption key data with a generation function having a factor of data that can be decoded with the second error correction code and supply the generated encryption key data to the encoding process portion. The recording apparatus for the recording medium as set forth in claim 36,    wherein whenever the data is recorded to the recording medium, the generating portion is configure to change the generation function. The recording apparatus for the recording medium as set forth in claim 35,    wherein whenever the data is recorded to the recording medium, the generating portion is configured to change the recording pattern of the plurality of pieces of the data. The recording apparatus for the recording medium as set forth in claim 34,    wherein the generating portion is configured to generate the plurality of pieces of the data that can be decoded with the second error correction code along with the data that has been encoded with the first error correction code so that when data that is read from the area is decoded with the second error correction code, a predetermined error pattern is obtained. The recording apparatus for the recording medium as set forth in claim 34,    wherein the first error correction code and the second error correction code are used to encode at least two encoding sequences in respective directions, the first error correction code and the second error correction being different only in the encoding sequences, the data that can be decoded being data of which predetermined data is repeated as one unit of one of the two encoding sequences in the respective directions. The recording apparatus for the recording medium as set forth in claim 34,    wherein the first error correction code and the second error correction code are a code with which a C1 sequence in a vertical direction is encoded and a code with which a C2 sequence in a diagonal direction is encoded, respectively; the first error correction code and the second error correction code being different in their interleave lengths, the data that can be decoded being predetermined data repeated as one unit of the C1 sequence. The recording apparatus for the recording medium as set forth in claim 41,    wherein the data that can be decoded contains an error of the C1 sequence. The recoding medium for the recording medium as set forth in claim 34, further comprising: A reproducing method for a recoding medium, comprising the steps of:  The reproducing method for the recording medium as set forth in claim 44, further comprising the step of:  The reproducing method for the recording medium as set forth in claim 44,    wherein a reading position of data that can be decoded with the second error correction code and that is read from the area is changed whenever the data is reproduced from the recording medium. The reproducing method for the recording medium as set forth in claim 44,    wherein a reading order of data that can be decoded with the second error correction code and that is read from the area is changed whenever the data is reproduced from the recording medium. The reproducing method for the recording medium as set forth in claim 44,    wherein the key data generating step is performed by reading the data from the area to a semiconductor memory and generating the key data using data that is read to the semiconductor memory. The reproducing method for the recording medium as set forth in claim 44,    wherein the data that can be decoded with the second error correction code is data that can be also decoded with the first error correction code. The reproducing method for the recording medium as set forth in claim 44,    wherein the first error correction code and the second error correction code are used to encode at least two encoding sequences in respective directions, the first error correction code and the second error correction being different only in the encoding sequences, the data that can be decoded being data of which predetermined data is repeated as one unit of one of the two encoding sequences in the respective directions. The reproducing method for the recording medium as set forth in claim 44,    wherein the first error correction code and the second error correction code are a code with which a C1 sequence in a vertical direction is encoded and a code with which a C2 sequence in a diagonal direction is encoded, respectively, the first error correction code and the second error correction code being different in their interleave lengths, the data that can be decoded being predetermined data repeated as one unit of the C1 sequence. A reproducing apparatus for a recoding medium, comprising:  The reproducing apparatus for the recording medium as set forth in claim 52,    wherein the generating portion is configured to also generate the key data using an error pattern of the data that has been decoded with the second error correction code. The reproducing apparatus for the recording medium as set forth in claim 52,    wherein a reading position of data that can be decoded with the second error correction code and that is read from the area is changed whenever the data is reproduced from the recording medium. The reproducing apparatus for the recording medium as set forth in claim 52,    wherein a reading order of data that can be decoded with the second error correction code and that is read from the area is changed whenever the data is reproduced from the recording medium. The reproducing apparatus for the recording medium as set forth in claim 52,    wherein the data that is read from the area is read to a semiconductor memory and the key data is generated using data that is read to the semiconductor memory. The reproducing apparatus for the recording medium as set forth in claim 52,    wherein the data that can be decoded with the second error correction code is data that can be also decoded with the first error correction code. The reproducing apparatus for the recording medium as set forth in claim 52,    wherein the first error correction code and the second error correction code are used to encode at least two encoding sequences in respective directions, the first error correction code and the second error correction being different only in the encoding sequences, the data that can be decoded being data of which predetermined data is repeated as one unit of one of the two encoding sequences in the respective directions. The reproducing apparatus for the recording medium as set forth in claim 52,    wherein the first error correction code and the second error correction code are a code with which a C1 sequence in a vertical direction is encoded and a code with which a C2 sequence in a diagonal direction is encoded, respectively, the first error correction code and the second error correction code being different in their interleave lengths, the data that can be decoded being predetermined data repeated as one unit of the C1 sequence. A data transmitting method, comprising the step of:  The data transmitting method as set forth in claim 60,    wherein the outputting step is performed by outputting the data that has been encoded with the first error correction code along with a plurality of pieces of data that can be decoded with the second error correction code so that when the data is decoded with the second error correction code, a predetermined error pattern is obtained. The data transmitting method as set forth in claim 61,    wherein the outputting step is performed by generating the encryption key data with a generation function having a factor of data that can be decoded with the second error correction code and outputting a pattern represented by the generated encryption key data. The data transmitting method as set forth in claim 62,    wherein whenever the data is output, the generation function is changed. The data transmitting method as set forth in claim 61,    wherein whenever the data is output, the recording pattern of the plurality of pieces of the data is changed. The data transmitting method as set forth in claim 60,    wherein part of the data that can be decoded with the second error correction code is dummy data. The data transmitting method as set forth in claim 60,    wherein the first error correction code and the second error correction code are used to encode at least two encoding sequences in respective directions, the first error correction code and the second error correction being different only in the encoding sequences, the data that can be decoded being data of which predetermined data is repeated as one unit of one of the two encoding sequences in the respective directions. The data transmitting method as set forth in claim 60,    wherein the first error correction code and the second error correction code are a code with which a C1 sequence in a vertical direction is encoded and a code with which a C2 sequence in a diagonal direction is encoded, respectively, the first error correction code and the second error correction code being different in their interleave lengths, the data that can be decoded being predetermined data repeated as one unit of the C1 sequence. A data decrypting method, comprising the steps of:  The data decrypting method as set forth in claim 68, further comprising the step of:  The data decrypting method as set forth in claim 68,    wherein a reading position of data that can be decoded with the second error correction code is changed whenever the data is decoded. The data decrypting method as set forth in claim 44,    wherein a reading order of data that can be decoded with the second error correction code is changed whenever the data is decoded. The data decrypting method as set forth in claim 68,    wherein the key data generating step is performed by reading the data to a semiconductor memory and generating the key data using data that is read to the semiconductor memory. The data decrypting method as set forth in claim 68,    wherein the data that can be decoded with the second error correction code is data that can be also decoded with the first error correction code. The data decrypting method as set forth in claim 68,    wherein the first error correction code and the second error correction code are used to encode at least two encoding sequences in respective directions, the first error correction code and the second error correction being different only in the encoding sequences, the data that can be decoded being data of which predetermined data is repeated as one unit of one of the two encoding sequences in the respective directions. The data decrypting method as set forth in claim 68,    wherein the first error correction code and the second error correction code are a code with which a C1 sequence in a vertical direction is encoded and a code with which a C2 sequence in a diagonal direction is encoded, respectively, the first error correction code and the second error correction code being different in their interleave lengths, the data that can be decoded being predetermined data repeated as one unit of the C1 sequence. <seperator>EP-1912131-A1<id_sep>classA61class subclassA61Msubclass sectionGsection groupG06F19slash00group subclassG06Fsubclass classG06class subgroupA61M5slash178subgroup sectionAsection Systems and methods for managing information relating to medical fluids and containers therefor The present invention relates to management of information relating to medical fluids, containers therefor, and medical fluid administration devices for administering such medical fluids to patients. Data tags (e.g., RFID tags) are generally associated with containers of the invention and may be electromagnetically read from and/or written to using an electromagnetic device, for example, that may be associated with a medical fluid administration device of the invention.   This application claims the benefit of the following U.S. Provisional Applications that are hereby incorporated in their entireties by reference herein:  The present invention relates generally to medical fluids (e.g., radiopharmaceuticals, contrast media) and, more particularly, to tracking and/or managing information relating to medical fluids, containers therefor, and/or medical fluid administration devices used to administer such medical fluids.  Proper administration of pharmaceuticals (e.g., contrast media, radiopharmaceuticals) is dependent on human reliability to insure the correct drug is administered properly. In the case of injectable pharmaceuticals, the consequences of mistakes can be severe. Statistically the accuracy of the health care system in providing correct injections is excellent. However, with millions of injections per year, there is a continuing effort to further reduce mistakes, a great majority of which are the result of human error. Of particular interest is the packaging, distribution and use of contrast media or a contrast agent. As used herein, a contrast media or agent is a substance that is introduced into, on, or around a physiological structure (e.g., tissue, vasculature, cell); and because of the differences In absorption by the contrast media and the surrounding tissues, the contrast media allows a radiographic visualization of the structure. Contrast media is used in x-ray computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MR), ultrasound imaging, angiographic imaging, and other procedures. Often, a container, for example, a syringe, is filled with a desired quantity of the contrast media by an independent supplier; and the filled syringes of contrast media are sold or otherwise provided to a hospital, imaging service provider or other health care facility. Over the useful life of the contrast media and its associated syringe, there are three principal areas of interest for tracking purposes: 1) the location where the contrast media is packaged in a container (e.g., a syringe); 2) the distribution and storage of the filled syringe; and 3) the use and disposal of the syringe. The filling of a syringe with contrast media can occur at a supplier's facility separate from a health care facility; or in some circumstances, within a pharmacy of the health care facility. Contrast media comes in many types and concentrations and can be filled in syringes of different sizes that also vary with the type of injector to be used. Further, the contrast media has a limited shelf life and a more limited life when open to atmosphere or when heated in preparation for injection. Thus, in order to properly fill a syringe with contrast media, knowledge of the contrast media's use, the injector and sometimes an identity of a patient are required. In addition, proper use of the contrast media requires knowledge of its age and other information relating to when the syringe was filled. Currently, all this information is manually collected by pharmacists and X-ray technologists. The technologist then uses this information to manually set up the injection; and currently, this information must be manually transposed onto various records. Known systems for managing pharmaceuticals provide filled syringes with bar codes having SKUs and other indicia relating to various filled sizes and concentrations of contrast media. But this system is limited in use and does not provide an efficient management of all of the parameters needed in a medical environment and particularly in connection with the use of contrast media. There is a need for a more automated system for entering information relating to contrast media upon filling a syringe. There is a further need to automatically track a particular syringe through a distribution system whether from a supplier external to a health care facility and/or from a pharmacy within the facility. A warmer (36) for warming a syringe (20) filled with medical fluid to be injected during an imaging procedure, the syringe having a data tag (60) for storing data, and the warmer comprising:  The warmer of claim 1 further comprising a user interface (86) for facilitating user selection of a syringe (20) in the warmer (36). The warmer of claim 1 or claim 2 further comprising an electromagnetic writer (81) associated with the warmer (36) and operable to write data in the data tag (60) relating to use of the medical fluid. The warmer of claim 3 wherein the data relating to use of the medical fluid comprises one or more of: a date the syringe was placed in the warmer, expiration data for medical fluid in the syringe and injection information for a medical fluid administration device using the medical fluid in the syringe. A method for using a warmer to warm a syringe filled with a medical fluid, the syringe having a data tag, the method comprising:  The method of claim 5 further comprising:  The method of claim 6 wherein the data relating to use of the medical fluid comprises one of a date the syringe was placed in the warmer, expiration data for medical fluid in the syringe and injection information for a medical fluid administration device using the medical fluid in the syringe. <seperator>EP-1290958-A2<id_sep>classA43class groupA43C15slash00group subclassA43Csubclass subgroupA43B13slash14subgroup subgroupA43B3slash10subgroup subgroupA43B13slash22subgroup subclassA43Bsubclass sectionAsection subgroupA43C15slash02subgroup Resilient all-surface soles for footwear A resilient shoe sole having a less resilient outer layer and a more resilient inner layer, and retractable studs anchored in the inner, more resilient layer. The bottom surface of the sole has annular grooves formed around the tip portions of the studs to permit those portions to flex when pressure is applied to the bottom surface, as during walking on a hard surface.  The present invention relates to improvements in resilient, all-surface soles that are applied to or or are integral part of footwear. More specifically, it relates to improvements in such soles as described, illustrated and claimed in my U.S. Patent No. 5,634,283, which was issued on June 3, 1997. As more fully disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 5,634,283, on which I am the named inventor and the disclosure of which is hereby fully incorporated herein by referende, it has long been a challenge to those of skill in the art of designing footwear to devise footwear having soles that enable the wearer to have traction on surfaces that may be classified as slippery, It will be apparent, however, that while shoes having soles with spikes extending outwardly from them are quite useful when one is walking on sod, or even a surface such as ice or compacted snow, when one then stands on a hard, smooth surface into which the spikes can make no substantial penetration, such spiked footwear can be a hazard to the wearer as well as the hard surface, which can be defaced and scratched by the shoe spikes. In order to address this problem my prior patent disclosed and claimed a footwear sole formed from a resilient material such as rubber and having a pluralityof metal studs mounted in the sole, each stud or spike having an anchoring poortion embedded in the resilient sole, a tip portion extending outwardly from the sole surface, and a shaft portion joining the tip and the anchor of the stud. When the footwear is worn, the studs are retracted inwardly from the surface of the sole so that on a hard surface, the tip portions of the studs will be located at the relatively hard surface and will not penetrate it. However, when the wearer is standing on a relatively soft surface, such as sod or wet ice, the studs will extend outwardly from the sole a distance sufficient to enable the wearer to obtain purchase on that softer surface due to penetration of the studs into the surface. While that invention is broadly utilitarian, i6 does not address problems that may arise in specific situations. Thus, where a woman's shoe is to be made with such a sole, it is apparent that pressure on the resilient sole will be less than that exerted by a shoe where the wearer is a 300-1b. man. Moreover, if the sole is formed from rubber or other material of a high degree of resilience such tht when the shoe is worn by a lightweight person the studs will nevertheless retract to the bottom surface of the sole, the sole formed from such soft rubber may not present a firm support to the wearer. In addition, even when there is an optimum balance between the resilience of the sole and the weight of the wearer, there still may be some scarification of a hard surface when the wearer i of the shoes slides his or her feet across that surface. A resilient, all-surface sole for footwear, said sole having a bottom, work contacting surface and an upper surface and being formed from a resilient material of substantial thickness located between said surfaces and being subject to compressive deformation, comprising:  A sole as claimed in claim 1, in which said resilient material is in the form of layers, a less resilient layer being located at a lower portion of said sole and terminating in said bottom, work contacting surface of said sole and a more resilient layer being located at an upper portion of said sole adjacent said less resilient layer. A sole as claimed in claim 1, in which said resilient material is in the form of layers, a first, less resilient layer being located at a lower portion of said sole and terminating in said bottom, work contacting surface of said sole, a more resilient layer located at contiguous with said less resilient layer and extending upwardly therefrom, and a second, less resilient layer contiguous with said more resilient layer, said first and second less resilient layers being adhered to and sandwiching said more resilient layer between them. A sole as claimed in claim 2 or claim 3, in which said stud anchor is embedded in said more resilient layer. A sole as claimed in claim 2 or claim 3, in which said stud anchor is positioned at the juncture of said first less resilient layer and said more resilient layer. A resilient, all-surface sole for footwear, said sole having a bottom, work contacting surface and an upper surface and being formed from a resilient material of substantial thickness located between said surfaces and being subject to compressive deformation, comprising:  A resilient, all-surface sole for footwear as claimed in claim 8, in which said recesses are annular in shape, each recess surrounding its tip portion at said sole surface. A resilient, all-surface sole for footwear as claimed in claim 9, in which said recesses extend into said sole surface at least the entire depth of said tip portion A resilient, all-surface sole for footwear as claimed in claim 9, in which said recesses extend into said sole surface to a depth of the entire tip portion of said stud and a part of said stud shaft. A resilient, all-surface sole for footwear, said sole having a bottom, work contacting surface and an upper surface and being formed from a resilient material of substantial thickness located between said surfaces and being subject to compressive deformation, comprising:  <seperator>EP-1746113-A1<id_sep>subgroupC08F236slash20subgroup groupC08F236slash00group sectionBsection subclassC08Fsubclass subclassB60Csubclass groupC08F210slash00group groupC08L23slash00group subgroupC08L23slash16subgroup sectionCsection groupC08L9slash00group subclassC08Lsubclass subgroupC08L23slash14subgroup groupB60C1slash00group groupC08L21slash00group subgroupC08L23slash02subgroup classB60class classC08class UNCONJUGATED POLYENE COPOLYMER, RUBBER COMPOSITION AND USES OF THOSE Disclosed are a nonconjugated polyene copolymer comprising a random copolymer having structural units derived from α-olefin (A1) of 2 to 20 carbon atoms and structural units derived from nonconjyugated polyene (A2), said nonconjugated polyene copolymer having a glass transition temerature (Tg) of -25 to 20 °C and Mooney viscosity of [ML(1+4)100°C] of 5 to 190;a rubber composition comprising the nonconjugated polyene copolymer and a diene-based rubber (B); a modifier for tires comprising the copolymer; a rubber material for tires comprising the rubber composition; a tire tread obtained from the rubber material for tires; and a tire having the tire tread. The present invention relates to a nonconjugated polyene copolymer, a rubber composition comprising the nonconjugated polyene copolymer and a diene-based rubber, and uses thereof. There has heretofore been employed in general a diene-based rubber composition composed of a styrene/butadiene copolymer rubber (SBR) and natural rubber for a rubber material for the tread tire of an automobile. However, it has been desired for a tire to have, a high braking performance in respect of the safety, in addition to abrasion resistance and lower fuel consumption concomitant with the recent trend of facilitation of energy economization. [Patent Document 1] Japanese Unexamined Patent Application Publication ( Therefore, the present inventors have proposed rubber materials for a tire tread comprising as one component a nonconjugated cyclic polyene copolymer having a specific content of nonconjugated cyclic polyene and a specific iodine value. The present inventors have investigated and found that there is room for improvement in terms of braking properties and fatigue resistance of a tire and also in terms of mechanical strength of the tire. An object of the present invention is to overcome the above problems and to provide a nonconjugated polyene copolymer which can be suitably used as raw materials of a rubber material for tires, having both excellent braking performance and fuel consumption performance, a rubber composition comprising the nonconjugated cyclic polyene copolymer, a modifier for tires comprising the nonconjugated polyene copolymer, a rubber material for tires comprising the rubber composition, a tire tread produced from the rubber material for tires and a tire having the tire tread. Another object of the present invention is to provide a nonconjugated cyclic polyene copolymer which can be suitably used as raw materials of a rubber material for tires, having improved braking performance and excellent rubber elasticity, mechanical strength, weather resistance, ozone resistance and hardness, and further excellent fatigue resistance, in addition to excellent fuel consumption performance, a rubber composition comprising the nonconjugated cyclic polyene copolymer, a modifier for tires comprising the nonconjugated polyene copolymer, a rubber material for tires comprising the rubber composition, a tire tread produced from the rubber material for tires and a tire having the tire tread. A further object of the present invention is to provide a nonconjugated cyclic polyene copolymer which can be suitably used as raw materials of a rubber material for tires, having both excellent braking performance and fuel consumption performance and further excellent mechanical strength, a rubber composition comprising the nonconjugated cyclic polyene copolymer, a modifier for tires comprising the nonconjugated polyene copolymer, a rubber material for tires comprising the rubber composition, a tire tread produced from the rubber material for tires and a tire having the tire tread. A still further object of the present invention is to provide a nonconjugated cyclic polyene copolymer which can be suitably used as raw materials of a rubber material for tires, having improved braking performance and excellent rubber elasticity, weather resistance, ozone resistance and hardness, and further excellent mechanical strength, in addition to excellent fuel consumption performance, a rubber composition comprising the nonconjugated polyene copolymer, a modifier for tires comprising the nonconjugated polyene copolymer, a rubber material for tires comprising the rubber composition, a tire tread produced from the rubber material for tires and a tire having the tire tread. A nonconjugated polyene copolymer comprising a random copolymer having structural units derived from α-olefin (A1) of 2 to 20 carbon atoms and structural units derived from nonconjyugated polyene (A2), said nonconjugated polyene copolymer having a glass transition temerature (Tg) of -25 to 20 °C and Mooney viscosity of [ML(1+4)100°C] of 5 to 190. The nonconjugated polyene copolymer according to claim 1, said nonconjugated polyene compolymer comprising a random copolymer having structural units derived from α-olefin (A1) of 2 to 20 carbon atoms and structural units derived from nonconjyugated cyclic polyene (A3), wherein the content of structural units derived from α-olefin (A1) of 2 to 20 carbon atoms is more than 93 to 96 mol% and the content of structural units derived from nonconjyugated cyclic polyene (A3) is 4 to less than 7 mol%. The nonconjugated polyene copolymer according to claim 2, wherein the nonconjugated polyene copolymer (A) consists only of the structural units derived from (A1) and the structural units derived from (A3). The nonconjugated polyene copolymer according to claim 2 or 3, wherein the structural units derived from α-olefin (A1) of 2 to 20 carbon atoms contain at least structural units derived from ethylene and the molar ratio of the structural units derived from ethylene/structural units derived from α-olefin of 3 or more carbon atoms is in the range of 100/0 to 1/99. The nonconjugated polyene copolymer according to any one of claims 2 to 4, wherein the content of structural units derived from ethylene of the nonconjugated polyene copolymer is in the range of 50 mol% or more based on 100 mol% of the total amount of α-olefin (A1) having 2 to 20 carbon atoms and nonconjugated cyclic polyene (A3) and a B value indicated below satisfies the relationship of the following formula [1]:  The nonconjugated polyene copolymer according to claim 1, said nonconjugated polyene copolymer comprising a random copolymer having structural units derived from α-olefin (A1) of 2 to 20 carbon atoms and structural units derived from nonconjyugated polyene (A2), wherein the content of structural units derived from α-olefin (A1) of 2 to 20 carbon atoms is 70 to 96 mol% and the content of the structural units derived from nonconjyugated polyene (A2) is 4 to 30 mol% and a decalin insoluble content at 135°C is 0.5% by weight or more. The nonconjugated polyene copolymer according to claim 6, wherein the structural units derived from α-olefin (A1) of 2 to 20 carbon atoms contain at least structural units derived from ethylene and the molar ratio of the structural units derived from ethylene/structural units derived from α-olefin of 3 or more carbon atoms is in the range of 100/0 to 1/99. The nonconjugated polyene copolymer according to claim 6 or 7, wherein at least part of the nonconjugated polyene (A2) of the nonconjugated polyene copolymer is the nonconjugated cyclic polyene (A3). The nonconjugated polyene copolymer according to claim 1, wherein the nonconjugated polyene copolymer is a random copolymer from α-olefin (A1) of 2 to 20 carbon atoms and nonconjugated polyene (A2) and is a nonconjugated polyene copolymer which satisfies the following (iii) to (v) requirements:  The nonconjugated polyene copolymer according to claim 9, wherein the nonconjugated polyene copolymer contains the content of structural units derived from α-olefin (A1) of 2 to 20 carbon atoms being 70 to 96 mol% and the content of structural units derived from nonconjugated polyene (A2) being 4 to 30 mol%. The nonconjugated polyene copolymer according to claim 9 or 10, wherein at least part of the nonconjugated polyene (A2) of the nonconjugated polyene copolymer is the nonconjugated cyclic polyene (A3). A rubber composition comprising the nonconjugated polyene copolymer according to claim 1 and a diene-based rubber (B). The rubber composition according to claim 12, wherein the nonconjugated polyene copolymer is the nonconjugated polyene copolymer according to any one of claims 2 to 11 and the weight ratio of the nonconjugated polyene copolymer/diene rubber (B) is in the range of 60/40 to 0.1/99.9. A modifier for tires comprising the copolymer according to any one of claims 1 to 11. A rubber material for tires comprising the rubber composition according to claim 12. A rubber material for tires comprising the rubber composition according to claim 13. A tire tread obtained from the rubber material for tires according to claim 12 or 13. A tire having the tire tread according to claim 17. <seperator>EP-1508299-A1<id_sep>subgroupA61B5slash103subgroup groupA61B5slash00group classA61class subgroupA61N1slash372subgroup subclassA61Nsubclass sectionAsection subclassA61Bsubclass subgroupA61B5slash04subgroup An implantable device for processing neurological signals An implantable device comprising a sensing unit, wherein the sensing unit is adapted to rectify biological/neurological signals in the form of sensed electrical signals from body tissue adjacent to the location of the implantable device. The sensing unit of the implantable device comprises at least one amplifier, wherein the supply current to the at least one amplifier is responsive to the magnitude of the sensed electrical signals provided to the at least one amplifier. The implantable device is further capable of integrating the rectified sensed electrical signals and generating output signals, wherein the output signals contain indicia of biopotential parameters of the body tissue.  This application is a continuation-in-part of U.S. Patent Application No. 10/121,881, filed April 11, 2002. This application also claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60/497,383, filed on August 22, 2003. The subject matter of all of the aforementioned applications are hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entirety. The invention in various aspects, and preferred and optional features, are set out in the claims. Brief Description of the Drawings  Detailed Description of the Preferred Embodiments The following description is of the best mode presently contemplated for carrying out the invention. This description is not to be taken in a limiting sense, but is made merely for the purpose of describing the general principles of the invention. The scope of the invention should be determined with reference to the claims. The present invention relates to devices and systems of such devices for monitoring and/or affecting parameters of a patient's body for the purpose of medical diagnosis and/or treatment. More particularly, such devices, preferably battery powered, are configured for implanting within a patient's body, each device being configured to sense a body parameter, e.g., temperature, 02 content, physical position, electrical potential, etc., and/or to affect a parameter, e.g., via nerve and/or muscle stimulation. Commonly owned U.S. Patent Nos. 6,164,284; 6,208,894; 6,315,721; and 6,564,807 each entitled "System of Implantable Devices For Monitoring and/or Affecting Body Parameters" and U.S. Patent No. 6,185,452 entitled "Battery Powered Patient Implantable Device", each incorporated herein by reference in their entirety, describe devices configured for implantation within a patient's body, i.e., beneath a patient's skin, for performing various functions including: (1) stimulation of body tissue and/or sensing of body parameters, and (2) communicating between implanted devices and devices external to a patient's body. In an exemplary use, the implanted device is used to electrically stimulate a neural pathway and/or muscle and the same (and/or another) implanted device senses an evoked response from the intended muscle tissue and uses the detected signal to confirm that stimulation did occur and/or to achieve closed loop control. In general, the detected signal may exhibit a frequency component that corresponds to the intensity of the intended or actual muscle response and amplitude components that correspond to its proximity to the desired source tissue and/or other signal generating tissue. Depending on the application, there are various techniques that may be used to interpret the neurological signal. Such implantable devices are preferably powered using rechargeable batteries and it is desired that the time between rechargings be maximized by minimizing the power dissipation of such circuitry within these implantable devices. Accordingly, what is needed is a programmable signal analysis circuit that can be configured to interpret neurological signals using a plurality of analysis modes. Furthermore, such a circuit should minimize its power dissipation to thus enhance the battery life of the implantable devices. A preferred signal analysis device for use within an implantable device, wherein the implantable device is configured at least in part for sensing a biological signal within a patient's body and the implantable device is contained within a sealed elongate housing having an axial dimension of less than 60 mm and a lateral dimension of less than 6 mm, comprises: (1) sensing circuitry for receiving a biological signal within the implantable device and generating a sensed voltage output in response thereto; (2) event detection circuitry for detecting an attribute of the sensed output according to one or more designated criteria and designating the detected attribute as an event; (3) an event counter configured for accumulating detected events; (4) a clocked counter for accumulating clock pulses; and (5) event analysis circuitry for determining a processed value corresponding to the detected events and the accumulated clock pulses. An implantable device comprising a sensing unit, wherein the sensing unit is adapted to rectify sensed electrical signals from tissue adjacent thereto. The implantable device of claim 1, wherein the sensing unit comprises:  The implantable device of claim 1 or 2, wherein the sensing unit is further adapted to integrate the rectified sensed electrical signals. The implantable device of claim 2 or 3, further comprising a controller for receiving the sensed electrical signal and measuring the magnitude of the sensed electrical signal, wherein the controller controls the supply current to the at least one amplifier. The implantable device of claim 4, wherein the supply current to the at least one amplifier is controlled as a function of the magnitude of the sensed electrical signals. The implantable device of claim 5, wherein the supply current to the at least one amplifier is reduced or cutoff when the magnitude of the sensed electrical signals is above a predetermined threshold level. The implantable device of claim 5, wherein the supply current to the at least one amplifier is increased when the magnitude of the sensed electrical signals is below a predetermined threshold level. The implantable device of any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein the implantable device comprises an elongate housing have an axial dimension of less than 60 mm and a lateral dimension of less than 6 mm. The implantable device of any one of claims 1 to 8, further comprising a transmitter for wirelessly transmitting the integrated rectified sensed electrical signals to receiving circuitry for further processing. The implantable device of claim 9, wherein the integrated sensed electrical signals are averaged over a predefined range between about 1 nanosecond and about 3600 seconds. The implantable device of claim 10, wherein the integrated sensed electrical signals are averaged over an interval of about 10 milliseconds. An implantable device comprising a sensing unit, wherein the sensing unit is adapted to rectify and/or integrate sensed electrical signals from a body tissue and generate output signals, wherein the output signals contain indicia of biopotential parameters of the body tissue. The implantable device of claim 12, wherein the implantable device comprises an elongate housing have an axial dimension of less than 60 mm and a lateral dimension of less than 6 mm. An implantable device, comprising:  The implantable device of claim 14, wherein the controller measures the magnitude of the sensed electrical signals and wherein the supply current to the at least one amplifier is reduced or cutoff when the magnitude of the sensed electrical signals is above a predetermined threshold level. The implantable device of claim 14, wherein the controller measures the magnitude of the sensed electrical signals and wherein the supply current to the at least one amplifier is increased when the magnitude of the sensed electrical signals is below a predetermined threshold level. <seperator>EP-1548089-A1<id_sep>subgroupC10M159slash22subgroup subgroupC10M135slash30subgroup groupC10M135slash00group groupC10M169slash00group groupC10M129slash00group subclassC10Nsubclass subgroupC10N10slash02subgroup subgroupC10M129slash54subgroup subgroupC10N40slash25subgroup subgroupC10M129slash44subgroup subgroupC10M129slash93subgroup groupC10M159slash00group classC10class sectionCsection subgroupC10M159slash20subgroup groupC10N20slash00group subgroupC10N30slash08subgroup subgroupC10N30slash04subgroup subgroupC10M169slash04subgroup subclassC10Msubclass Lubricating oil composition containing an alkali metal salicylate detergent The present invention provides overbased detergents as lubricating additives effective for the lubrication of mechanical components in land and marine engines, such as, for example, hydraulic systems, transmissions, two-stroke and four-stroke vehicular engines, and trunk piston and two-stroke crosshead marine engines. The present invention relates to detergents for lubricating oil applications. In particular, the present invention relates to a lubricating oil composition containing an alkali metal detergent effective for the lubrication of mechanical components in land and marine engines. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Overbased detergents are well described to provide lubricating properties. Often such detergent additives are proportioned with other lubricating additives to provide lubricating oil compositions that exhibit certain desired lubricating properties. Overbased alkali or alkaline-earth metal sulfonates are examples. European Patent Application Publication No. 1059301A1 describes alkaline-earth aralkylsulfonates having improved detergent and dispersant properties. International Application WO 97/46644 describes a calcium overbased detergent comprising a surfactant system derived from at least two surfactants, in which at least one of the surfactants is a sulfurized or non-sulfurized phenol, or at least one other of the surfactants is other than a phenol, for example a sulfonic acid derivative, the proportion of phenol in the surfactant system being at least 35% by mass, and the TBN/% surfactant ratio of said detergent being at least 15. International Application WO 97/46645 describes a calcium overbased detergent comprising a surfactant system derived from at least two surfactants in which at least one of the surfactants is a sulfurized or non-sulfurized phenol, or at least one other of the surfactants is a sulfurized or non-sulfurized salicylic acid, the total proportion of said phenol and of said salicylic acid in the surfactant system being at least 55% by mass, and the TBN/% surfactant ratio of said detergent being at least 11. International Application WO 97/46647 describes a calcium overbased detergent comprising a surfactant system derived from at least two surfactants in which at least one of the surfactants is a sulfurized or non-sulfurized phenol, or at least one other of the surfactants is other than a phenol, for example an alkylarylsulfonate, the proportion of phenol in the surfactant system being at least 15% by mass, and the TBN/% surfactant ratio of said detergent being at least 21. International Application WO 99/28422 describes a lubricating oil composition comprising a mixture of at least two detergents containing metals, namely, a) a phenate, sulfonate, salicylate, naphthenate or metal carboxylate, and b) an overbased calcic detergent comprising a surfactant system derived from at least two surfactants in which at least one of the surfactants is a sulfurized or non-sulfurized phenol, or at least one other surfactant is other than a phenol, the proportion of phenol in the surfactant system being at least 45% by mass, and the TBN/% surfactant ratio of said detergent being at least 14. Alkaline-earth metal hydroxybenzoates are also known as additives for engine lubricating oils. U.S. Patent No. 5,895,777 describes lubricating oil additives comprising the alkaline-earth metal salts of aromatic carboxylic hydroxy acids containing carboxylic acids having 16 to 36 carbon atoms. European Patent Application No. 1,154,012 describes lubricating compositions comprising an oil, an anti-wear additive and a sole oil-soluble overbased detergent comprising an aromatic carboxylate, such as a calcium salicylate substituted by a hydrocarbon remainder. British Patent No. 1,146,925 describes lubricating compositions comprising, as lubricating agents, polyvalent metal salts, in particular calcium, and alkylsalicylic acids comprising more than 12, preferably 14 to 18 carbon atoms in the alkyl group. These salts can be prepared from the corresponding sodium salts, as synthesis intermediates. A lubricating oil composition comprising:  The lubricating oil composition according to Claim 1, wherein R is a linear or branched alkyl group or a mixture of linear and branched alkyl groups. The lubricating oil composition according Claim 2, wherein R is a linear alkyl group having from about 20 to 40 carbon atoms. The lubricating oil composition according Claim 3, wherein R is a linear alkyl group having from greater than 22 up to 40 carbon atoms. The lubricating oil composition according to Claim 1, wherein R is selected from the group consisting of linear C14-C16, C16-C18, C18-C30, C20-C22, C20-C24 or C20-C28 alkyl or mixtures thereof. The lubricating oil composition according Claim 2, wherein R is a branched alkyl group having from about 9 to 40 carbon atoms. The lubricating oil composition according to Claim 6, wherein R is a branched alkyl group having from about 12 to 20 carbon atoms. The lubricating oil composition according to Claim 1, wherein R is a mixture of linear and branched alkyl groups each containing 12 carbon atoms. The lubricating oil composition according to Claim 1, wherein M is potassium. The lubricating oil composition according to Claim 1, wherein the oil-soluble additive is sulfurized. The lubricating oil composition according to Claim 1, wherein the oil-soluble additive comprises at least 80 wt % alkylhydroxybenzoate. The lubricating oil composition according to Claim 1, wherein the oil-soluble additive concentrate has a TBN lower than 100. The lubricating oil composition according to Claim 12, wherein the oil-soluble additive concentrate has a TBN from about 10 to below 100. The lubricating oil composition according to Claim 1, wherein the concentration of alkali metal in the additive concentrate is greater than 2500 ppm by weight. The lubricating oil composition according to Claim 14, wherein the concentration of alkali metal in the additive concentrate is greater than 5000 ppm by weight. The lubricating oil composition according to Claim 1, wherein M is sodium and R is a linear alkyl group containing more than 22 carbon atoms. A method of lubricating an internal combustion engine, said method comprising operating the engine with the lubricating oil composition according to Claim 1. The method according to Claim 17, wherein the engine is a two-stroke crosshead engine or a marine engine. The method according to Claim 18 wherein the marine engine is a trunk-piston engine. <seperator>EP-1548008-A1<id_sep>subgroupA61P27slash02subgroup subgroupA61P19slash02subgroup groupA61P35slash00group groupC07D401slash00group groupC07D215slash00group groupA61P3slash00group subclassC07Dsubclass groupA61P41slash00group classA61class groupA61P43slash00group groupA61P11slash00group subgroupC07D215slash22subgroup groupA61P9slash00group subgroupC07D401slash14subgroup subgroupA61P1slash16subgroup subgroupC07D215slash233subgroup classC07class subgroupA61P3slash10subgroup groupA61P1slash00group groupA61P13slash00group subclassA61Psubclass subgroupA61P19slash04subgroup subgroupA61P17slash02subgroup subgroupA61P13slash12subgroup groupA61P27slash00group groupA61P19slash00group groupA61P17slash00group sectionCsection subgroupA61P1slash04subgroup subgroupA61P9slash10subgroup sectionAsection COMPOUND HAVING TGF-BETA INHIBITORY ACTIVITY AND MEDICINAL COMPOSITION CONTAINING THE SAME The present invention provides compounds represented by formula (I) and pharmaceutically acceptable salts and solvates thereof:  Field of the Invention The present invention relates to compounds having TGFβ inhibitory activity and more particularly to quinoline derivatives and quinazoline derivatives having TGFβ inhibitory activity. The present invention also relates to a pharmaceutical composition useful for the prophylaxis or therapy of diseases for which TGFβ inhibition is effective therapeutically. Background Art TGFβ (transforming growth factor-β) is a cytokine which is very important to organisms for regulating growth differentiation of cells and repair and regeneration of cells after tissue disorder. Disruption of its signal is known to cause onset and progression of various diseases. The relationship between TGFβ and fibrosis of organs or tissues is well known. The fibrosis of an organ or a tissue takes place as a result of excessive accumulation of extracellular matrix proteins within the organ for repair or as a defence mechanism upon damage to the organ or the like by some cause. The extracellular matrix proteins refer to a substance surrounding cells of the tissue. For example, fibrotic proteins such as collagen and elastin, glycoconjugates such as proteoglycan, and glycoproteins such as fibronectin and laminin is included as major extracellular matrix proteins. When the level of fibrosis of an organ is low, the organ can be recovered to a normal state without leaving any scar. On the other hand, when the level of lesion of the organ is large or when the lesion continues, the fibrosis causes damage to the innate function of the organ. Further, the damage causes new fibrosis to create a vicious cycle. Ultimately, this causes organ failure and, in the worst case, sometimes leads to death. TGFβ is known to play an important role in the accumulation of the extracellular matrix proteins. For example, the administration of TGFβ to normal animals is known to cause fibrosis in various tissues ( TGFβ is considered to participate in the fibrosis of tissues through the following mechanism. TGFβ is known to be mainly involved in the fibrosis of organs such as kidney, liver, lung, heart, bone marrow, and skin. For example, the analysis of expression of TGFβ1 clearly demonstrate an increase in expression of TGFβ1 in diseases such as human acute renal diseases, chronic renal diseases, diabetic nephropathy, renal allograft rejection, HIV nephropathy, hepatic fibrosis, cirrhosis, pulmonary fibrosis, scleroderma, and keloid ( Further, in pathologic aminal models, such as renal failure diseases, diabetic nephropathy, hepatic fibrosis, pulmonary fibrosis, and scleroderma, it is reported that the administration of soluble receptor comprising the extracellular region of type II receptor and TGFβ-neutralizing antibody can inhibit fibrosis and can improve the pathology ( These facts show that the inhibition of TGFβ is useful for the prophylaxis and therapy against all diseases involving fibrosis including chronic renal diseases. Further, TGFβ is also involved in restenosis and arteriosclerosis. In restenosis model animals, an increase in expression of TGFβ1 and its receptor is observed in a injured blood vessel, and TGFβ1 is suggested to be involved in the formation of new intima after balloon injury is suggested ( In arteriosclerosis, a highly expression of TGFβ1 is observed in non-foam macrophage infiltrated in an affected region in which matrix proteins synthesis strongly takes place, ( A compound represented by formula (I) or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof:  wherein    X represents CH or N,    Z represents -O-, -NH-, -S-, or -C(=O)-,    R and R', which may be the same or different, represent  The compound according to claim 1, represented by formula (II), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof:  wherein    X, Z, and A are as defined in claim 1,    R1 and R2, which may be the same or different, represent a hydrogen atom, or -(CH2)m-Ra wherein Ra represents a hydrogen atom, a halogen atom, hydroxyl, a saturated or unsaturated three- to six-membered carbocyclic or heterocyclic group, C1-4 alkoxy, C1-4 alkoxycarbonyl, or -NRbRc wherein Rb and Rc, which may be the same or different, represent a hydrogen atom or C1-6 alkyl, in which the C1-6 alkyl group is optionally substituted by hydroxyl, an oxygen atom, amino, a nitrogen atom, or C1-4 alkyl, and Rb and Rc may combine with a nitrogen atom attached thereto to form a saturated or unsaturated five- or six-membered heterocyclic group, which may further comprise one or more heteroatoms, and in which the heterocyclic group is optionally substituted by C1-4 alkyl, optionally substituted by hydroxyl, hydroxyl, an oxygen atom, aminocarbonyl, C1-4 alkoxy, C1-4 alkoxycarbonyl, or a saturated or unsaturated five- or six-membered heterocyclic group, and the heterocyclic group may condense with another saturated or unsaturated five- or six-membered carbocyclic or heterocyclic group to form a bicyclic group; m is an integer of 1 to 6; and the alkyl chain part in this group, -(CH2)m-, is optionally substituted by hydroxyl, an oxygen atom, -ORd group, wherein Rd represents C1-4 alkyl or C1-4 alkylcarbonyl, or C1-4 alkyl optionally substituted by hydroxyl or a halogen atom. The compound according to claim 2, wherein    R1 and R2, which may be the same or different, represent    any group selected from the group consisting of    a hydrogen atom,    C1-6 alkyl optionally substituted by phenyl, and    groups of formulae (i) to (vi):  The compound according to claim 3, wherin formula (i) is represented by formula (i-a):  The compound according to claim 3 or 4, wherein    R1 and R2, which may be the same or different, represent any group selected from the group consisting of    a hydrogen atom,    C1-6 alkyl,    benzyl,    groups of formulae (i), (v), and (vi) according to claim 3, and    groups of formulae (ii-a), (iii-a), and (iv-a):  The compound according to claim 5, wherein one of R1 and R2 is selected from C1-6 alkyl, and the other substituent is selected from the group consisting of    a hydrogen atom,    benzyl,    groups of formulae (i), (v), and (vi) according to claim 3, and    groups of formulae (ii-a), (iii-a), and (iv-a) according to claim 5. The compound according to claim 1, wherein    at least one of R and R' is selected from the group consisting of    a hydrogen atom,    a halogen atom,    C1-4 alkyl optionally substituted by hydroxyl, a halogen atom, or a saturated or unsaturated five- or six-membered heterocyclic group,    C2-4 alkenyl optionally substituted by an oxygen atom or C1-4 alkoxy,    amino in which one or two hydrogen atoms on the amino group are optionally substituted by C1-4 alkyl, and the C1-4 alkyl group is optionally substituted by hydroxyl or a saturated or unsaturated five- or six-membered heterocyclic group,    -C(=O)-NH2, and    a saturated or unsaturated five- or six-membered heterocyclic group. The compound according to claim 1, wherein    R' is selected from the group consisting of    a hydrogen atom,    a halogen atom,    C1-4 alkyl optionally substituted by hydroxyl, a halogen atom, or a saturated or unsaturated five- or six-membered heterocyclic group,    C2-4 alkenyl optionally substituted by an oxygen atom or C1-4 alkoxy,    amino in which one or two hydrogen atoms on the amino group are optionally substituted by C1-4 alkyl, and the C1-4 alkyl group is optionally substituted by hydroxyl or a saturated or unsaturated five- or six-membered heterocyclic group,    -C(=O)-NH2, and    a saturated or unsaturated five- or six-membered heterocyclic group. The compound according to any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein formula (a), which A may represent, represents any group selected from the group consisting of formulae (a1) to (a3):  The compound according to claim 9, wherein A represents a group of formula (a1) and at least one of R3 to R6 in formula (a1) is selected from groups other than a hydrogen atom. The compound according to claim 9 or 10, wherein A represents a group of formula (a1) and R7 in formula (a1) represents a hydrogen atom, C1-4 alkyl, or phenyl in which the phenyl group is optionally substituted by hydroxyl, C1-4 alkyl, or C1-4 alkoxy. The compound according to claim 9 or 10, wherein A represents a group of formula (a1) and R7 in formula (a1) represents group -O-R8 or group -N(-R9)R10. The compound according to claim 12, wherein R8 represents unsubstituted C1-8 alkyl; C1-4 alkyl substituted by phenyl; C2-8 alkenyl; or phenyl optionally substituted by a halogen atom. The compound according to claim 12, wherein    at least one of R9 and R10 represents a hydrogen atom and the other substituent represents    a hydrogen atom,    C1-6 alkyl,    a saturated or unsaturated five- or six-membered    carbocyclic group in which the carbocyclic group is optionally substituted by a halogen atom, or    naphthyl optionally substituted by a halogen atom, or    R9 and R10 combine with a nitrogen atom attached thereto to form a saturated five- or six-membered heterocyclic group in which the heterocyclic group may further comprise at least one heteroatom. The compound according to any one of claims 9 to 14, wherein A represents a group of formula (a1) and R5 in formula (a1) is selected from groups other than a hydrogen atom. The compound according to any one of claims 10 to 15, wherein R and R' are selected from -OR" wherein R" represents C1-6 alkyl. The compound according to claim 9, wherein A represents a group of formula (a2) and R11 and R12 in formula (a2) combine with a nitrogen atom attached thereto to form a saturated or unsaturated five- or six-membered heterocyclic group in which the heterocyclic group may further comprise one or more heteroatoms and is optionally substituted by C1-4 alkyl optionally substituted by hydroxyl; or a saturated five- or six-membered heterocyclic group. The compound according to claim 17, wherein A represents a group of formula (a2) and, in formula (a2),    R3, R4, and R6 represent a hydrogen atom, hydroxyl, or a halogen atom, and    R5 represents C1-4 alkyl. The compound according to claim 9, wherein    A represents a group of formula (a3) and, in formula (a3),    R13 represents methyl, and    R14 represents hydroxyl; C1-4 alkoxy optionally substituted by phenyl; C2-6 alkenyloxy; phenyloxy; or amino optionally substituted by a six-membered unsaturated heterocyclic group. The compound according to claim 9 or 19, wherein A represents a group of formula (a3), and, in formula (a3),    R3a and R6a represents a hydrogen atom, and    R4a and R5a represent C1-6 alkyl. The compound according to claim 1, wherein A is selected from groups of formula (a) or (b). The compound according to any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein formula (b), which A may represent, represents any group selected from the group consisting of formulae (b1) to (b3):  The compound according to claim 22, wherein A represents a group of formula (b1) and, in formula (b1),    R25 represents a hydrogen atom,    R26 represents a hydrogen atom, a halogen atom, or C1-4 alkyl,    R27 represents a hydrogen atom, a halogen atom, C1-4 alkyl, C1-4 alkoxy, or C1-4 alkylthio, and    R26 and R27 may combine with a carbon atom attached thereto to form an unsaturated six-membered carbocyclic or heterocyclic group. The compound according to claim 22, wherein    A represents a group of formula (b1) and, in formula (b1),    R25 represents a hydrogen atom,    R26 represents a hydrogen atom, a halogen atom, or C1-4 alkyl,    R27 represents a hydrogen atom, a halogen atom, C1-4 alkyl, C1-4 alkoxy, or C1-4 alkylthio,    R26 and R27 may combine with a carbon atom attached thereto to form an unsaturated six-membered carbocyclic or heterocyclic group, and    R28 represents a saturated or unsaturated four- to seven-membered carbocyclic or heterocyclic group in which the carbocyclic or heterocyclic group is optionally substituted by hydroxyl; cyano; a halogen atom; C1-4 alkoxy; phenyloxy; C1-4 alkylcarbonyl; amino optionally substituted by C1-4 alkyl or C1-4 alkylcarbonyl; aminocarbonyl optionally substituted by C1-4 alkyl; or C1-4 alkyl optionally substituted by hydroxyl or a halogen atom. The compound according to claim 22, wherein A represents a group of formula (b2) and, in formula (b2),    R29 represents a hydrogen atom,    R30 represents a hydrogen atom or C1-4 alkyl, and    R31 and R32 combine with carbon atom attached thereto to from an unsaturated five- or six-membered carbocyclic or heterocyclic group in which the carbocyclic or heterocyclic group is optionally substituted by a halogen atom or C1-4 alkyl. The compound according to claim 22, wherein A represents a group of formula (b3) and, in formula (b3),    R33 and R34 represent a hydrogen atom, and    R35 and R36 combine with a carbon atom attached thereto to form an unsaturated five- or six-membered carbocyclic or heterocyclic group. The compound according to claim 22, wherein when one of R1 and R2 is selected from C1-6 alkyl, and the other substituent is selected from the group consisting of    a hydrogen atom,    benzyl,    groups of formulae (i), (v), and (vi) according to claim 3, and    groups of formulae (ii-a), (iii-a), and (iv-a) according to claim 5,    A is selected from groups of formula (a1) or (b1). The compound according to any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein A represents a group of formula (c) and, in formula (c),    R21 and R22, or R22 and R23 combine with a carbon atom attached thereto to form a saturated or unsaturated five- or six-membered carbocyclic or heterocyclic group in which the carbocyclic or heterocyclic group is optionally substituted by a halogen atom, C1-4 alkyl, C1-4 alkylcarbonyl, C1-6 alkoxycarbonyl, or an oxygen atom and may condense with another saturated or unsaturated five- or six-membered carbocyclic or heterocyclic group to form, together with the six-membered carbocyclic ring in formula (c), a tricyclic group, and    any one of or both R20 and R24 is selected from groups other than a hydrogen atom. The compound according to claim 1 or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof, wherein formula (I) is represented by formula (100):  wherein    X represents CH or N,    Z represents -O-, -NH-, -S-, or -C(=O)-,    R101 and R102, which may be the same or different, represent any group selected from the group consisting of    a hydrogen atom,    C1-6 alkyl,    benzyl, and    groups of formulae (i), (ii-a), (iii-a), (iv-a), (v), and (vi),  The compound according to claim 29, wherein    Z represents -O-,    at least one of R101 and R102 represents methyl, and    R107 represents a hydrogen atom, methyl, ethyl, or phenyl optionally substituted by hydroxyl, C1-4 alkyl or C1-4 alkoxy. The compound according to claim 1 or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof, wherein formula (I) is represented by formula (200): wherein    X represents CH or N,    Z represents -O-, -NH-, -S-, or -C(=O)-,    R201 and R202, which may be the same or different, represent any group selected from the group consisting of    a hydrogen atom,    C1-6 alkyl,    benzyl, and    groups of formulae (i), (ii-a), (iii-a), (iv-a), (v), and (vi),  The compound according to claim 31, wherein    Z represents -O-, S-, or -C(=O)-, and    R208 represents unsubstituted C1-8 alkyl; methyl substituted by phenyl; C2-8 alkenyl; or phenyl. The compound according to claim 1 or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof, wherein formula (I) is represented by formula (300):  wherein    X represents CH or N,    Z represents -O-, -NH-, -S-, or -C(=O)-,    R301 and R302, which may be the same or different, represent any group selected from the group consisting of    a hydrogen atom,    C1-6 alkyl,    benzyl, and    groups of formulae (i), (ii-a), (iii-a), (iv-a), (v), and (vi),  The compound according to claim 33, wherein    Z represents -O-,    at least one of R309 and R310 represents a hydrogen atom and    the other substituent represents a hydrogen atom, C1-4 alkyl, a saturated or unsaturated six-membered carbocyclic group in which the carbocyclic group is optionally substituted by a halogen atom, or naphthyl, or    R309 and R310 combine with a nitrogen atom attached thereto to form a saturated six-membered heterocyclic group which may further comprise one or more heteroatoms. The compound according to claim 1 or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof, wherein formula (I) is represented by formula (400):  wherein    X represents CH or N,    Z represents -O-, -NH-, -S-, or -C(=O)-,    R401 and R402, which may be the same or different, represent any group selected from C1-6 alkyl,    R403, R404, and R406 represent a hydrogen atom, hydroxyl, or a halogen atom,    R405 represents C1-4 alkyl,    R411 and R412 combine with a nitrogen atom attached thereto to form a saturated or unsaturated five- or six-membered heterocyclic group in which the heterocyclic group may further comprise one or more heteroatoms and is optionally substituted by C1-4 alkyl optionally substituted by hydroxyl; or a saturated five- or six-membered heterocyclic group. The compound according to claim 35, wherein    Z represents -O-,    R401 and R402 represent methyl,    R411 and R412 combine with a nitrogen atom attached thereto to form a saturated five- or six-membered heterocyclic group in which the heterocyclic group may further comprise one or more heteroatoms. The compound according to claim 1 or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof, wherein formula (I) is represented by formula (500):  wherein    X represents CH or N,    Z represents -O-, -NH-, -S-, or -C(=O)-,    R501 and R502, which may be the same or different, represent any group selected from C1-6 alkyl,    R503 and R506 represent a hydrogen atom,    R504 and R505 represent C1-6 alkyl, and    R513 represents C1-4 alkyl, and    R514 represents hydroxyl; C1-4 alkoxy optionally substituted by phenyl; C2-6 alkenyloxy; phenyloxy; or amino optionally substituted by a six-membered unsaturated heterocyclic group. The compound according to claim 37, wherein    Z represents -O-,    R501 and R502 represent methyl,    R503 and R506 represent a hydrogen atom,    R504 and R505 represent methyl, and    R513 represents methyl. The compound according to claim 1 or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof, wherein formula (I) is represented by formula (600):  wherein    X represents CH or N,    Z represents -O-, -NH-, -S-, or -C(=O)-,    R601 and R602, which may be the same or different, represent any group selected from the group consisting of    a hydrogen atom,    C1-6 alkyl,    benzyl, and    groups of formulae (i), (ii-a), (iii-a), (iv-a), (v), and (vi), The compound according to claim 39, wherein R628 represents a saturated or unsaturated four- to seven-membered carbocyclic or heterocyclic group in which the carbocyclic or heterocyclic group is optionally substituted by hydroxyl; cyano; a halogen atom; C1-4 alkoxy; phenyloxy; C1-4 alkylcarbonyl; amino optionally substituted by C1-4 alkyl or C1-4 alkylcarbonyl; aminocarbonyl optionally substituted by C1-4 alkyl; or C1-4 alkyl optionally substituted by hydroxyl or a halogen atom. The compound according to claim 1 or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof, wherein formula (I) is represented by formula (700):  wherein    X represents CH or N,    Z represents -O-, -NH-, -S-, or -C(=O)-,    R701 and R702, which may be the same or different, represent any group selected from C1-6 alkyl,    R729 represents a hydrogen atom,    R730 represents a hydrogen atom or C1-4 alkyl, and    R731 and R732 combine with a carbon atom attached thereto to form an unsaturated five- or six-membered carbocyclic or heterocyclic group in which the carbocyclic or heterocyclic group is optionally substituted by a halogen atom or C1-4 alkyl. The compound according to claim 41, wherein    Z represents -O- and    R701 and R702 represent methyl. The compound according to claim 1, represented by formula (800), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof:  wherein    X represents CH or N,    Z represents -O-, -NH-, -S-, or -C(=O)-,    R801 and R802, which may be the same or different, represent any group selected from C1-6 alkyl,    R833 and R834 represent a hydrogen atom, and    R835 and R836 combine with a carbon atom attached thereto to form an unsaturated five- or six-membered carbocyclic or heterocyclic group. The compound according to claim 43, wherein    Z represents -O- or -S-,    R801 and R802 represent methyl,    R835 and R836 combine with a carbon atom attached thereto to form phenyl. The compound according to claim 1 or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof, wherein formula (I) is represented by formula (900):  wherein    X represents CH or N,    Z represents -O-, -NH-, -S-, or -C(=O)-,    R901 and R902, which may be the same or different, represent any group selected from C1-6 alkyl,    R920, R921, R923, and R924, which may be the same or different, represent    a hydrogen atom,    a halogen atom,    C1-10 alkyl optionally substituted by hydroxyl, a saturated or unsaturated five- or six-membered carbocyclic or heterocyclic group,    C1-8 alkoxy,    C2-6 alkenyl optionally substituted by C1-4 alkyl, C1-4 alkoxy, an oxygen atom or phenyl,    phenylcarbonyl optionally substituted by C1-4 alkyl,    amino optionally substituted by phenyl,    nitro, or    a saturated or unsaturated five- or six-membered carbocyclic or heterocyclic group in which the carbocyclic or heterocyclic group is optionally substituted by C1-6 alkyl,    provided that at least one of R920 and R924 is selected from a group other than a hydrogen atom,    R922 represents    C1-10 alkyl optionally substituted by hydroxyl, a saturated or unsaturated six-membered carbocyclic or heterocyclic group,    C1-8 alkoxy,    amino optionally substituted by phenyl,    nitro, or    a saturated or unsaturated five- or six-membered carbocyclic or heterocyclic group in which the carbocyclic or heterocyclic group is optionally substituted by C1-6 alkyl, and    R921 and R922, or R922 and R923 may combine with a carbon atom attached thereto to form a saturated or unsaturated five- or six-membered carbocyclic or heterocyclic group in which the carbocyclic or heterocyclic group is optionally substituted by a halogen atom, C1-4 alkyl, C1-4 alkylcarbonyl, C1-6 alkoxycarbonyl, or an oxygen atom, and the carbocyclic or heterocyclic group may condense with another saturated or unsaturated five- or six-membered carbocyclic or heterocyclic group to form a tricyclic group together with the six-membered carbocyclic ring of formula (c). The compound according to claim 45, wherein    at least one of R920 and R924 is selected from a group other than a hydrogen atom, and    R921 and R922, or R922 and R923 may combine with a carbon atom attached thereto to form a saturated or unsaturated five- or six-membered carbocyclic or heterocyclic group in which the carbocyclic or heterocyclic group is optionally substituted by a halogen atom, C1-4 alkyl, C1-4 alkylcarbonyl, C1-6 alkoxycarbonyl, or an oxygen atom. A pharmaceutical composition comprising as an active ingredient the compound according to any one of claims 1 to 46 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof. The pharmaceutical composition according to claim 47, for the therapy or prophylaxis of a disease for which TGFβ inhibition is effective therapeutically or prophylactically. The pharmaceutical composition according to claim 48, wherein the disease for which TGFβ inhibition is effective therapeutically or prophylactically is a disease involvingfibrosis of an organ or a tissue. The pharmaceutical composition according to claim 48, wherein the disease for which TGFβ inhibition is effective therapeutically or prophylactically is chronic renal disease, acute renal disease, hepatic fibrosis, cirrhosis, pulmonary fibrosis, scleroderma, wound healing, arthritis, congestive cardiac disease, ulcer, ocular disorder, cornea disorder, diabetic nephropathy, peritoneal sclerosis, arterial sclerosis, peritoneal adhesion, or subdermal adhesion. The pharmaceutical composition according to claim 48, wherein the disease for which TGFβ inhibition is effective therapeutically or prophylactically is a malignant tumor. The pharmaceutical composition according to claim 47, which may be used for in vitro amplification of cells. A TGFβ inhibitor comprising the compound according to any one of claims 1 to 46 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof. A method for treating or preventing a disease for which TGFβ inhibition is effective therapeutically or prophylactically, comprising the step of administering a therapeutically or prophylactically effective amount of the compound according to any one of claims 1 to 46 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof to a patient who should undergo therapy of a disease for which inhibition activity is effective therapeutically or prophylactically. The method according to claim 54, wherein the disease for which TGFβ inhibition is effective therapeutically or prophylactically is a disease involving fibrosis of an organ or a tissue. The method according to claim 54, wherein the disease for which TGFβ inhibition is effective therapeutically or prophylactically is chronic renal disease, acute renal disease, hepatic fibrosis, cirrhosis, pulmonary fibrosis, scleroderma, wound healing, arthritis, congestive cardiac disease, ulcer, ocular disorder, cornea disorder, diabetic nephropathy, peritoneal sclerosis, arterial sclerosis, peritoneal adhesion, or subdermal adhesion. The method according to claim 54, wherein the disease for which TGFβ inhibition is effective therapeutically or prophylactically is a malignant tumor. A method for amplifying cells in vitro, comprising the step of addition, into target cells in vitro, of the compound according to any one of claims 1 to 46 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof in an amount effective for promoting cell amplification to amplify cells. The method according to claim 58, wherein said target cells are hematopoietic stem cells. A method for inhibiting the action of TGFβ on cells, comprising the step of applying an effective amount of the compound according to any one of claims 1 to 46 to cells present in vitro or in vivo. Use of the compound according to any one of claims 1 to 46, for the manufacture of a therapeutic or prophylactic agent for a disease for which TGFβ inhibition is effective therapeutically or prophylactically. Use of the compound according to any one of claims 1 to 46, for the manufacture of a TGFβ inhibitor. Use of the compound according to any one of claims 1 to 46, for the manufacture of an accelerator for in vitro amplification of cells. <seperator>EP-1352644-A1<id_sep>subgroupA61K8slash30subgroup subgroupC11D3slash37subgroup subclassA61Ksubclass subgroupA61Q5slash02subgroup subgroupA61Q19slash10subgroup subgroupC11D1slash02subgroup subgroupA61K8slash81subgroup subgroupA61K8slash45subgroup subgroupC11D1slash88subgroup subgroupA61K8slash73subgroup subgroupC11D1slash34subgroup classA61class subclassA61Qsubclass subgroupA61K8slash44subgroup subgroupC11D1slash94subgroup classC11class subgroupA61K8slash55subgroup groupA61K8slash00group subgroupA61K8slash58subgroup subgroupC11D1slash92subgroup subgroupA61K8slash46subgroup subgroupA61K8slash72subgroup subgroupA61K8slash40subgroup groupC11D11slash00group subgroupC11D1slash29subgroup subgroupC11D1slash90subgroup subclassC11Dsubclass subgroupC11D1slash14subgroup subgroupC11D3slash22subgroup sectionCsection sectionAsection Detergent composition Provided is a detergent composition comprising the following components (A), (B) and (C):  The detergent composition has low irritation to the skin,  is excellent in foaming power, provides creamy foam, gives the skin or the like a good feeling after washing, is excellent in low temperature stability and permits easy mixing during preparation. Technical Field The present invention relates to a detergent composition which causes less irritation to the skin or the like, is excellent in low temperature stability, foaming power and foam quality, and gives the skin or the like a good feel after use. Background Art Phosphate surfactants have conventionally been employed as a main component for shampoos or skin cleansers because of a low stimulus to the skin. Phosphate surfactants are generally available as a mixture of a monoester and a diester and alkyl phosphates inevitably contain therein a dialkyl phosphate having poor foaming power. Since foaming power and foaming quality are not sufficient when a phosphate surfactant is used singly as a main component of a detergent, a method of incorporating an auxiliary in the phosphate surfactant is proposed in order to overcome such a drawback. The method disclosed in Japanese Patent Laid-Open No. Sho 62-138594 gazette in which a hydroxy sulfobetaine having a specific structure is used as an auxiliary is a relatively good method for reinforcing foaming power and improving low temperature stability, but is unsatisfactory in both the foaming power and foam quality. The method disclosed in Japanese Patent Laid-Open No. Sho 62-149798 gazette in which an amide betaine compound is used as an auxiliary is relatively good from the viewpoints of foaming characteristics and improvement in a feeling after washing, but is unsatisfactory in both the foaming power and foam quality. The method disclosed in Japanese Patent Laid-Open No. Hei 8-134496 gazette in which a hydroxy sulfobetaine having a specific amide group is used as an auxiliary is a relatively good method from the viewpoints of the foamability, foam quality and improvement in the feeling after washing, but the foaming power, foam quality and feeling after washing achieved by this method are not satisfactory. Accordingly, an object of the present invention is to provide a detergent composition containing a phosphate surfactant, which has excellent foaming power, provides creamy foam, gives the skin or the like a good feeling after washing, has excellent low temperature stability and permits easy mixing during preparation while retaining low irritation to the skin which is characteristic to phosphate surfactants. Disclosure of the Invention The present inventors have found that, if a detergent composition containing a phosphate surfactant is incorporated with a polyoxyethylene alkyl ether sulfate or alkyl sulfate and one or more of sulfobetaines and alkylamide propyl betaines, the resulting composition causes less irritation to the skin or the like, has excellent foaming power, provides creamy foam and gives the skin or the like a good feel after washing, and have completed the present invention. Therefore, the present invention provides a detergent composition comprising the following components (A), (B) and (C): Best Mode for Carrying Out the Invention In the phosphate of the formula (1) or (2) which is a less irritative base to be used in the present invention as Component (A), a C The (a The content of the phosphate surfactant serving as Component (A) is preferably 5 to 40 wt.%, more preferably from 8 to 30 wt.%, particularly preferably 10 to 30 wt.% of the detergent composition in view of the foaming property, detergency and ease of mixing. A detergent composition comprising the following components (A), (B) and (C):  A detergent composition of Claim 1, wherein the weight ratio of Component (A) to Component (B),(A)/(B), ranges from 95/5 to 50/5. A detergent composition of Claim 1 or 2, wherein the weight ratio of the sum of Components (A) and (B) to Component (C), [(A) + (B)]/(C), ranges from 99/1 to 40/60. A detergent composition of any one of Claims 1 to 3, wherein the content of Component (A) ranges from 5 to 40 wt.%. A detergent composition of any one of Claims 1 to 4, wherein the content of Component (B) ranges from 1 to 40 wt.%. A detergent composition of any one of Claims 1 to 5, wherein the content of Component (C) ranges from 0.1 to 20 wt.%. A detergent composition of any one of Claims 1 to 3, wherein the contents of Components (A), (B) and (C) range from 5 to 40 wt.%, 1 to 40 wt.% and 0.1 to 20 wt.%, respectively. A detergent composition of any one of Claims 1 to 7, further comprising a cationized polymer as Component (D). A detergent composition of Claim 8, wherein the content of Component (D) ranges from 0.05 to 0.5 wt.%. A process for preparation of a detergent composition as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 9, which comprises mixing Components (A), (B) and (C), or Components (A), (B), (C) and (D), and stirring the resulting mixture under heating at 40 to 80°C. <seperator>EP-1714691-A1<id_sep>groupB01D19slash00group sectionBsection subclassB01Dsubclass classB01class subgroupB01D61slash14subgroup Method of removing carbon monoxide from an oxygen carrier such as hemoglobin A method of removing carbon monoxide from an oxygen carrier including providing a carbon monoxide bonded oxygen carrier solution across a separation membrane (3) from an oxygen-dissolved solution; and exposing the setting part to the light and a method of removing carbon monoxide from an oxygen carrier including setting a carbon monoxide oxygen carrier solution across a hollow fiber separation membrane (3) from an oxygen-dissolved solution; and exposing the setting part to light.  Technical Field The present invention relates to a method of treating an oxygen carrier. The present invention more specifically relates to a method of treating an aqueous solution containing a carbon monoxide bonded oxygen carrier, that is, a method of performing a carbon monoxide removal treatment on an oxygen carrier to remove carbon monoxide for the stabilization of the oxygen carrier. Carbon monoxylation of an oxygen carrier is used for preventing inactivation of an oxygen transport function of hemoglobin over a long period of time. The present invention also relates to an oxygen carrier subjected to the treatment, and to an apparatus for the treatment. Prior Art As oxygen carriers, there are natural oxygen carriers and artificial oxygen carriers. Examples of the natural oxygen carriers include hemoglobin originated from, for example, humans, bovines, or other living organisms; concentrated red blood cells or myoglobin originated from, for example, humans, bovines, or other living organisms; and hemocyanin originated from, for example, fish or other living organisms. Examples of the artificial oxygen carriers include highly-functional oxygen carriers that utilize natural oxygen carriers, such as modified hemoglobin and hemoglobin-encapsulated liposomes; completely-synthesized oxygen carriers, such as compounds in which porphyrin metallic complexes inclusive of porphyrin derivatives are incorporated in albumin, albumin dimers, and albumin polymers; and perfluorocarbons; and recombinant oxygen carriers, such as recombinant hemoglobin, recombinant modified hemoglobin, modified recombinant hemoglobin, and recombinant hemoglobin-encapsulated liposomes, which can be obtained by gene recombination technologies. These oxygen carriers can replace red blood cells of humans and other animals. These oxygen carriers are used for oxygen supply to an ischemic site or tumor tissue, for blood transfusion to a patient with massive bleeding, for an organ-preserving perfusion fluid, for an extracorporeal circulation fluid, for a cell culture medium, and so on (see, e.g., An example of the porphyrin metal complex is a 2-[8-(2-methyl-1-imidazolyl)octanoyloxymethyl]-5,10,15,20-tetrakis[α,α,α,α-o-(1-m ethylcyclohexanoylamino)phenyl]porphinato complex ( The hemoglobin-encapsulated liposome includes a hemoglobin encapsulated in an inner layer of a liposome formed of a lipid bilayer, and various preparation methods and investigations thereof have been studied ( The artificial oxygen carriers having divalent heme iron in an artificial oxygen carrier molecule have an oxygen transport function. An artificial oxygen carrier having the heme iron oxidized into trivalent heme iron, that is, an artificial oxygen carrier which lose ability of oxygen coordination has no oxygen transport function. Thus, formation of the met- artificial oxygen carrier must be prevented. A known method of preventing the formation of the "artificial oxygen carrier which lose ability of oxygen coordination involves formation of a complex of heme iron and carbon monoxide in the artificial oxygen carrier molecule, that is, stabilization of the artificial oxygen carrier through carbon monoxylation ( The artificial oxygen carrier which is stabilized through formation of a complex of heme iron bonded carbon monoxide never after sometimes referred to as a carbon monoxide bonded artificial oxygen carrier has no oxygen transport function. Thus, carbon monoxide which forms the complex with heme iron in the artificial oxygen carrier must be removed, in other words, A method of removing carbon monoxide from a carbon monoxide bonded oxygen carrier comprising:  The method of removing carbon monoxide from a carbon monoxide bonded oxygen carrier according to claim 1, wherein the separation membrane comprises a hollow fiber separation membrane (3; 19-21; 31). An oxygen carrier, which is obtained such that a solution of a carbon monoxide bonded oxygen carrier is set across a separation membrane (3; 3'; 19-21; 31) from an oxygen-dissolved solution, and carbon monoxide is removed from the carbon monoxide bonded oxygen carrier by exposing the separation membrane (3; 3'; 19-21; 31) as the reaction plane to light. The oxygen carrier according to claim 3, which is one material or a combination of two or more kinds selected from the group composed of: a hemoglobin-encapsulated liposome; a porphyrin metal complex-including albumin; a porphyrin metal complex/ PEGylated albumin composite; a hemoglobin solution; a cross linked hemoglobin; a polymerized hemoglobin; and a PEGylated hemoglobin. A pharmaceutical composition comprising:  A separation membrane (3; 3'; 19-21; 31) for removing carbon monoxide from an oxygen carrier, across which a carbon monoxide bonded oxygen carrier solution is set from an oxygen-dissolved solution; and the separation membrane as the reaction plane is exposed to light. A separation membrane module, containing the separation membrane (3; 3'; 19-21; 31) for removing carbon monoxide according to claim 6. The separation membrane module according to claim 7, wherein the separation membrane (3; 3'; 19-21; 31) is placed only in a portion to be exposed as the reaction plane to light. An apparatus for removing carbon monoxide from a carbon monoxide bonded oxygen carrier comprising:  <seperator>EP-1229076-A1<id_sep>classA43class subclassC08Ksubclass groupC08J9slash00group groupA43B17slash00group subgroupC08K5slash098subgroup groupC08L23slash00group subclassC08Jsubclass sectionCsection groupC08K5slash00group subgroupA43B17slash14subgroup subgroupC08K5slash56subgroup subclassC08Lsubclass subgroupC08L23slash08subgroup subclassA43Bsubclass sectionAsection subgroupC08L23slash06subgroup classC08class Elastomic composition for preparing olefinic elastomer crosslinked foam and use thereof The elastomeric composition for preparing an olefinic elastomer crosslinked foam according to the present invention contains an ethylene/α-olefin copolymer (A) having a specific density and MFR, an organic peroxide (D), a crosslinking assistant (E), a foaming agent (F), an organic metal compound (G), andas necessary, a high pressure low density polyethylene (B) having a specific MFR, and an ethylene/vinyl acetate copolymer (C) having a specific amount of vinyl acetate and a specific MFR. An olefinic elastomer crosslinked foam of the present invention can be obtained by crosslinking and foaming the above composition. Further, another olefinic elastomer crosslinked foam of the present invention can be obtained by a secondary compression of the above crosslinked foam. The footwear part of the present invention is made of these crosslinked foams. The present invention provides an elastomeric composition for preparing an olefinic elastomer crosslinked foam that can provide an olefinic elastorner crosslinked foam having an Asker C hardness of 20 to 80, a low specific gravity, a low compression set, and excellent tear strength and impact resilience; and a crosslinked foam made of this. Furthermore, the present invention provides footwear parts made of the above crosslinked foam. The present invention relates to an elastomeric composition for preparing an olefinic elastomer crosslinked foam and use thereof, and more specifically, an elastomeric composition for preparing an olefinic elastomer crosslinked foam that can provide an olefinic elastomer crosslinked foam having an Asker C hardness of 20 to 80, a low specific gravity, a low compression set (CS), and an excellent tear strength and impact resilience, and to an olefinic elastomer crosslinked foam made of this. Techniques using crosslinked foams to obtain a resin having a low specific gravity, i.e. a light weight, a high flexibility and a high mechanical strength are broadly applied to interior and exterior building materials, automotive parts such as interior materials or door glass runs, wrapping materials, articles of daily use, etc. Such techniques are used because mere foaming a resin for weight reduction leads to a reduction of mechanical strength, but, in contrast, binding molecular chains by crosslinking reaction of a resin enables weight reduction by foaming while avoiding reduction of mechanical strength. In addition, resin crosslinked foams are also used for soles (mainly, midsoles) of athletic shoes etc. This is because materials are needed that are light and have a high mechanical strength enough to avoid deformation due to long-term use and withstand harsh use conditions. Conventionally, crosslinked foams of an ethylene/vinyl acetate copolymer are used for soles and is publicly known. However, such crosslinked foams, which are molded using an ethylene/vinyl acetate copolymer composition, have a high specific gravity and are insufficient in terms of a low compression set, and therefore when used for a sole for example, a problem arises that the sole is heavy and is compressed by long-term use, so that mechanical strength such as impact resilience is lost. National Publication of International Patent Application No. 9-501447 and Japanese Patent Laid-Open No. 11-206406 describe a crosslinked foam using an ethylene/α-olefin copolymer, and a crosslinked foam using a mixture of an ethylene/vinyl acetate copolymer and an ethylene/α-olefin copolymer, respectively. Some improvements in terms of a low specific gravity and a low compression set are attained, but adequate performance has not been obtained in these inventions. Therefore, there is a need for an elastomeric composition for preparing an olefinic elastomer crosslinked foam that can provide an olefinic elastomer crosslinked foam having an Asker Chardness of 20 to 80, a low specific gravity, a low compression set (CS) and an excellent tear strength and impact resilience, and a crosslinked foam made of this. The present invention intends to solve the above problems accompanying the prior art, and an object of the present invention is to provide an elastomeric composition for preparing an olefinic elastomer crosslinked foam that can provide an olefinic elastomer crosslinked foam having an Asker C hardness of 20 to 80, a low specific gravity and a low compression set (CS) and furthermore having excellent tear strength and impact resilience, and a crosslinked foam made of this. Another object of the present invention is to provide a footwear part made of the above olefinic elastomer crosslinked foam, such as a sandals and a sole, midsole, and innersole of shoes. An elastomeric composition for preparing an olefinic elastomer crosslinked foam, comprising:  The elastomeric composition according to claim 1 further comprising, based on 100 parts by weight of said ethylene/α-olefin copolymer (A), 5 to 100 parts by weight of a high pressure low density polyethylene (B) having a melt flow rate (ASTM D 1238, 190°C, 2.16 kg load) of 0.1 to 50 g/10 min, and/or 5 to 1,900 parts by weight of an ethylene/vinyl acetate copolymer (C) having a vinyl acetate content of 10 to 30% by weight and a melt flow rate (ASTM D 1238, 190°C, 2.16 kg load) of 0.1 to 50 g/10 min. The elastomeric composition according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the α-olefin in said ethylene/α-olefin copolymer (A) is an α-olefin 3 to 10 carbon atoms. The elastomeric composition according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein there is used, as said ethylene/α-olefin copolymer (A), a mixture of two or more ethylene/α-olefin copolymers, having a molecular weight distribution (Mw/Mn) determined by gel permeation chromatography (GPC) within a range of 1.5 to 4, and a ratio (MFR10/MFR2.16) of a melt flow rate (ASTM D 1238, 190°C, 2.16 kg load), MFR2.16 to a melt flow rate (ASTM D 1238, 190°C, 10 kg load), MFR10 within a range of 5 to 20. The elastomeric composition according to claim 4, wherein said mixture of two or more of the ethylene/α-olefin copolymers is produced by blending or multistage polymerization so that it has a molecular weight distribution (Mw/Mn) determined by GPC within a range of 2.3 to 6. The elastomeric composition according to claim 1, wherein said organic metal compound (G) has at least two CH2=CH-CO-O- or CH2=C(CH3)-CO-O- groups per molecule. The elastomeric composition according to claim 6, wherein said organic metal compound (G) is an organic zinc compound. The elastomeric composition according to claim 7, wherein said organic zinc compound is zinc diacrylate or zinc dimethacrylate. The elastomeric composition according to any one of claims 1 to 8, which contains 0.05 to 5 parts by weight of said organic metal compound (G) based on 100 parts by weight of the total amount of the ethylene/α-olefin copolymer (A), the high pressure low density polyethylene (B) and the ethylene/vinyl acetate copolymer (C). An olefinic elastomer crosslinked foam, which is obtained by crosslinking and foaming the elastomeric composition for preparing olefinic elastomer crosslinked foam according to any one of claims 1 to 9. An olefinic elastomer crosslinked foam, which is obtained by a secondary compression of the crosslinked foam according to claim 10. The olefinic elastomer crosslinked foam according to claim 11, wherein said secondary compression is performed under conditions of a temperature of 130°C to 200°C and a load of 30 to 300 kgf/cm2 for 5 to 60 minutes. The olefinic elastomer crosslinked foam according to any one of claims 10 to 12 having a specific gravity (JIS K 7222) of 0.05 to 0.25, a surface hardness (Asker C hardness) of 20 to 80, and a gel fraction of 70% or more. A footwear part, which is made of the crosslinked foam according to any one of claims 10 to 13. The footwear part according to claim 14, which is a midsole, innersole or sole. <seperator>EP-1378814-A2<id_sep>subclassH03Fsubclass subgroupH03F3slash45subgroup classH03class sectionHsection subclassH03Ksubclass sectionGsection groupH03K5slash00group subgroupH03K19slash0175subgroup subclassG06Fsubclass classG06class subgroupG06F1slash10subgroup subgroupG06F1slash04subgroup Output circuit device for clock signal distribution An output circuit device has an output circuit connected between a first power supply line and a second power supply line via a control circuit having at least one isolating transistor. A control voltage held at a constant level is applied to a control electrode of the isolating transistor, and the control voltage is a voltage at a level that works to attenuate high-frequency components contained in a voltage supplied from the first or the second power supply line.  This application is based upon and claims the benefit of priority from the prior Japanese Patent Application No. 2002-153885, filed on May 28, 2002, the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. The present invention relates to a signal transmission technology for enabling high-speed signal transmission between a plurality of LSI chips or a plurality of devices or circuit blocks within a single chip, or between a plurality of boards or cabinets, and more particularly to an output circuit device to be used for clock signal distribution in high-speed signal transmission, and a system constructed with such output circuit devices. Recently, the performance of components used in computers and other information processing apparatuses has been greatly improved. In particular, dramatic improvements have been made, for example, in the performance of processors and semiconductor memory devices such as SRAMs (Static Random Access Memories) and DRAMs (Dynamic Random Access Memories). The improvements in the performance of semiconductor memory devices, processors, etc. have reached the point where system performance cannot be improved further unless the speed of signal transmission between components or elements is increased. Specifically, the speed gap between a memory such as a SRAM or DRAM and a processor (i.e., between LSIs), for example, has been widening, and in recent years, this speed gap has been becoming a bottleneck in a computer's performance. Further, not only the speed of signal transmission between such chips, but because of increasing integration and increasing size of chips, decreasing supply voltage levels (decreasing signal amplitude levels), etc. the speed of signal transmission between elements or circuit blocks within a single chip is also becoming a major factor limiting the performance of the chip. Moreover, the speed of signal transmission between a peripheral device and the processor/chipset also is becoming a major factor limiting the overall performance of the system. Here, a technique for distributing a clock for accurate timing becomes important when it comes to increasing the speed of signal transmission within a cabinet or between circuit blocks or chips. That is, as the timing accuracy of the distributed clock directly affects the accuracy of receive timing and also the timing accuracy of a signal to be generated, a buffer that can minimize the occurrence of jitter must be used as a clock buffer for clock distribution. This applies not only to the clock distribution buffer, but also to various other output circuit devices that are required to operate at high speed with accurate timing. In the prior art, it was difficult to provide an output circuit device that can operate at high speed with accurate timing by minimizing the occurrence of jitter. The prior art and its associated problem will be described in detail later with reference to relevant drawings. An object of the present invention is to provide an output circuit device that can operate at high speed with accurate timing by minimizing the occurrence of jitter. According to the present invention, there is provided an output circuit device comprising an output circuit connected between a first power supply line and a second power supply line via a control circuit having at least one isolating transistor, wherein a control voltage held at a constant level is applied to a control electrode of the isolating transistor, and the control voltage is a voltage at a level that works to attenuate high-frequency components contained in a voltage supplied from the first or the second power supply line. An output circuit device comprising an output circuit connected between a first power supply line and a second power supply line via a control circuit having at least one isolating transistor, wherein    a control voltage held at a constant level is applied to a control electrode of said isolating transistor, and    said control voltage is a voltage at a level that works to attenuate high-frequency components contained in a voltage supplied from said first or said second power supply line. The output circuit device as claimed in claim 1, wherein said control circuit comprises a high-frequency component attenuating capacitor one end of which is connected to the control electrode of said isolating transistor. The output circuit device as claimed in claim 2, wherein    said isolating transistor is a source-grounded MOS transistor, and    the other end of said high-frequency component attenuating capacitor is connected to a source side of said first or said second power supply line whichever is connected to said source-grounded MOS transistor. The output circuit device as claimed in claim 3, wherein    said isolating transistor is a pMOS transistor whose source is connected to said first power supply line, and whose drain is connected to said output circuit, and    the other end of said high-frequency component attenuating capacitor is connected to said first power supply line. The output circuit device as claimed in claim 3, wherein    said isolating transistor is an nMOS transistor whose source is connected to said second power supply line, and whose drain is connected to said output circuit, and    the other end of said high-frequency component attenuating capacitor is connected to said second power supply line. The output circuit device as claimed in claim 2, wherein    said isolating transistor is a source-follower connected MOS transistor, and    the other end of said high-frequency component attenuating capacitor is connected either to said first or said second power supply line, whichever is not connected to said source-follower connected MOS transistor, or to a node having a prescribed potential difference relative to said power supply line not connected to said source-follower connected MOS transistor. The output circuit device as claimed in claim 6, wherein    said isolating transistor is an nMOS transistor whose source is connected to said output circuit, and whose drain is connected to said first power supply line, and    the other end of said high-frequency component attenuating capacitor is connected to said second power supply line. The output circuit device as claimed in claim 6, wherein    said isolating transistor is a pMOS transistor whose source is connected to said output circuit, and whose drain is connected to said second power supply line, and    the other end of said high-frequency component attenuating capacitor is connected to said first power supply line. The output circuit device as claimed in claim 1, wherein    said control voltage is generated through a noise reduction filter circuit, and    said noise reduction filter circuit attenuates the high-frequency components contained in the voltage supplied from said first or said second power supply line whichever is connected to said isolating MOS transistor. The output circuit device as claimed in claim 1, wherein    said output circuit comprises a pair of inverters amplifying differential signals, and    a voltage passed through said control circuit is applied to a back gate of a transistor forming each of said inverters. The output circuit device as claimed in claim 10, wherein a well of each pMOS transistor forming said pair of inverters is connected to the source of said pMOS transistor. The output circuit device as claimed in claim 1, wherein said isolating transistor is provided on at least one side of either between said output circuit and said first power supply line or between said output circuit and said second power supply line. The output circuit device as claimed in claim 12, wherein said isolating transistor is provided on both sides of between said output circuit and said first power supply line and between said output circuit and said second power supply line. The output circuit device as claimed in claim 1, further comprising a low-pass filter circuit provided in series to said isolating transistor. The output circuit device as claimed in claim 14, wherein said low-pass filter circuit comprises:  The output circuit device as claimed in claim 15, wherein a potential on said first or said second power supply line, whichever is not connected to said filter transistor, is applied to a control electrode of said filter transistor as well as to the other end of said filter capacitor. The output circuit device as claimed in claim 14, wherein said low-pass filter circuit comprises:  The output circuit device as claimed in claim 17, wherein a potential on said first or said second power supply line, whichever is not connected to said filter resistor, is applied to the other end of said filter capacitor. The output circuit device as claimed in claim 1, further comprising:  The output circuit device as claimed in claim 1, wherein said output circuit device is a clock buffer used for clock signal distribution. An output circuit device comprising an amplifier circuit to which an input signal is supplied, wherein a common-mode voltage of said input signal is adjusted to a value substantially equal to a common-mode voltage of an output signal output from said amplifier circuit. The output circuit device as claimed in claim 21, wherein the adjustment of the common-mode voltage of said input signal is performed by a common-mode feedback circuit provided on an output side of a transmitting circuit that transmits signals to said output circuit device. The output circuit device as claimed in claim 21, wherein the adjustment of the common-mode voltage of said input signal is performed by terminating said input signal with a power supply that is provided on an input side of said output circuit device and that generates a common-mode voltage of a prescribed level. The output circuit device as claimed in claim 21, wherein the adjustment of the common-mode voltage of said input signal is performed by capacitively coupling said input signal with said amplifier circuit and by supplying a DC potential, after said capacitive coupling, to a power supply that is provided on an input side of said output circuit device and that generates a common-mode voltage of a prescribed level. The output circuit device as claimed in claim 21, further comprising:  The output circuit device as claimed in claim 21, wherein said output circuit device is a clock buffer used for clock signal distribution. An output circuit system having a plurality of output circuit devices, multi-phase clocks being transmitted through said plurality of output circuit devices, and phase spacing between multiple phases being maintained constant by adjusting the amount of delay in each of said output circuit devices in accordance with an output of a uniformity detection circuit that detects phase uniformity between said multi-phase clocks, wherein each of said output circuit devices comprises an output circuit connected between a first power supply line and a second power supply line via a control circuit having at least one isolating transistor, wherein    a control voltage held at a constant level is applied to a control electrode of said isolating transistor, and    said control voltage is a voltage at a level that works to attenuate high-frequency components contained in a voltage supplied from said first or said second power supply line. An output circuit system having a plurality of output circuit devices, multi-phase clocks being transmitted through said plurality of output circuit devices, and phase spacing between multiple phases being maintained constant by adjusting the amount of delay in each of said output circuit devices in accordance with an output of a uniformity detection circuit that detects phase uniformity between said multi-phase clocks, wherein each of said output circuit devices comprises an amplifier circuit to which an input signal is supplied, wherein a common-mode voltage of said input signal is adjusted to a value substantially equal to a common-mode voltage of an output signal output from said amplifier circuit. <seperator>EP-1435680-A2<id_sep>subgroupH01S3slash109subgroup subclassG02Fsubclass sectionHsection sectionBsection groupB23K26slash00group sectionGsection classH01class subgroupG02F1slash37subgroup subgroupH01S3slash08subgroup subgroupG02F1slash35subgroup subgroupH01S3slash081subgroup subclassB23Ksubclass classB23class subclassH01Ssubclass classG02class Green welding laser A harmonic system for use with metals and alloys such as titanium, steel, copper, gold, aluminum, etc. is disclosed. The harmonic laser system includes an oscillator cavity having a first end mirror and a harmonic separator mirror, an active medium positioned in the oscillator cavity, an electro-optic pump device for optically pumping the active medium to produce a first optical beam at a fundamental wavelength and a nonlinear optical crystal positioned in the oscillator cavity to generate a second optical beam at a harmonic wavelength of the first optical beam, wherein the harmonic separator mirror outputs the second optical beam and reflects the first optical beam.  The present invention generally relates to optical harmonic generators and, more particularly relates to an optical harmonic generator for generating a laser output beam for use in a laser spot or seam welding system. Recently, lasers have been used in industrial production, particularly for welding, cutting, and surface treatment. In practice laser welding technology is increasingly gaining importance because of the high precision and processing speeds that can be achieved, the low thermal stress on the workpiece, and the high degree of automation which is possible. Current laser welding systems often use a CO However, light from a CO Current laser welding systems typically compensate for poor absorption by increasing the peak power of the laser pulse to overcome the metal's initial resistance to coupling at room temperature. The absorption significantly increases when the metal reaches its melting temperature. However, before reaching the melting temperature the use of a high energy pulse may result in considerable inefficiency in that a significant portion of the laser beam may not be absorbed during the onset of the pulse. In addition, once the laser pulse couples with the material, the high peak power may add too much energy and cause the material to splash (radiate drops of molten metal) or cause unwanted vaporization of the metal and alloy components. The undesirable inefficiency and splashing may lead to inconsistent weld results. In an exemplary embodiment according to the present invention, a laser welding system includes an oscillator cavity having a first end mirror and a harmonic separator mirror, an active medium positioned in the oscillator cavity, an electro-optic pump device for optically pumping the active medium to produce a first optical beam at a fundamental wavelength and a non-linear optical crystal positioned in the oscillator cavity to generate a second optical beam at a harmonic wavelength of said first optical beam, wherein the harmonic separator mirror outputs the second optical beam and reflects the first optical beam. In another exemplary embodiment according to the present invention, a method of generating a second optical beam having a harmonic wavelength of a wavelength of a first optical beam is provided. The method includes: generating the first optical beam having the fundamental wavelength by optically pumping an active medium; directing the first optical beam to a non-linear optical crystal to generate the second optical beam having the harmonic wavelength; and directing the first and second optical beams to a harmonic separator mirror that passes through the second optical beam and reflects the first optical beam. These and other features, aspects, and advantages of the present invention will become better understood with regard to the following description, appended claims, and accompanying drawings where: An exemplary embodiment of the present invention provides a method and apparatus for generating an Nth harmonic frequency beam (N≥2). In accordance with an exemplary embodiment, the harmonic, optical generator may comprise an electro-optic pumping device (e.g., laser diode, flash lamp, etc.) that produces an output pumping radiation which is optically coupled into an active medium disposed within an optical resonator to pump the active medium and to excite the optical resonator at a fundamental wavelength. In the described exemplary embodiment a non-linear electro-optic medium may be coupled to the excited, fundamental optical mode of the optical resonator to produce a non-linear interaction with the fundamental wavelength producing harmonic wavelength photons. The advantages of the present invention may be best understood in the context of an exemplary application, such as, for example, a laser welding system. A harmonic laser system, comprising:  The harmonic laser system of claim 1, wherein said second optical beam welds a first workpiece to a second workpiece. The harmonic laser system of claim 1, wherein said second optical beam generates heat in a workpiece for changing material properties of the workpiece, reshaping the workpiece, or removing material from the workpiece. The harmonic laser system of claim 1, further comprising a focusing lens for focusing the first optical beam to the non-linear optical crystal, thereby converging the first optical beam onto a surface of the non-linear optical crystal. The harmonic laser system of claim 4, wherein a focal length of the focus lens is between about 100 mm and 150 mm. The harmonic laser system of claim 1, wherein said harmonic separator mirror has a concave reflecting surface for focusing the first optical beam to the non-linear optical crystal, thereby converging the first optical beam onto a surface of the non-linear optical crystal. The harmonic laser system of claim 1, wherein the first and second optical beams comprise a pulsed laser. The harmonic laser system of claim 7, wherein pulsed energy for the pulsed laser is produced without using a Q-switch device. The harmonic laser system of claim 7, wherein pulse length for the pulsed laser is greater than 100 microseconds. The harmonic laser system of claim 1, wherein the first and second optical beams comprise a continuous wave laser. The harmonic laser system of claim 1, wherein the non-linear optical crystal is selected from a group consisting of a doubling, tripling and quadrupling non-linear crystals. The harmonic laser system of claim 1, wherein the non-linear optical crystal comprises a plurality of non-linear crystals arrayed in series so as to increase the conversion efficiency of the second optical beam by generating high order (N>3) harmonics. The harmonic laser system of claim 1, wherein the active medium is selected from a group consisting of a gaseous medium and a laser crystal. The harmonic laser system of claim 1, wherein the electro-optic pump device is selected from a group consisting of a laser diode and a flash lamp. The harmonic laser system of claim 1, wherein the active medium and the non-linear optical crystal are co-linear with one another. The harmonic laser system of claim 1, wherein the oscillator cavity comprises a folded oscillator cavity wherein the first optical beam and the second optical beam are at an angle with one another, and the oscillator cavity further comprises a second end mirror co-linear with the non-linear optical crystal for reflecting both the first and second optical beams towards the non-linear optical crystal. The harmonic laser system of claim 1, wherein the fundamental wavelength is 1064 nm and the harmonic wavelength is 532 nm. A method of generating a second optical beam having a harmonic wavelength of a wavelength of a first optical beam, the method comprising:  The method of claim 18, further comprising focusing the first optical beam onto the non-linear optical crystal using a focusing lens. The method of claim 18, wherein the harmonic separator mirror has a concave reflecting surface, the method further comprising focusing the first optical beam onto the non-linear optical crystal using the concave reflecting surface of the harmonic separator mirror. The method of claim 18, wherein the first and second optical beams are normally incident upon the harmonic separator mirror. The method of claim 18, wherein the first and second optical beams are incident upon the harmonic separator mirror at a non-normal angle and at an angle with each other. The method of claim 18, further comprising welding a first workpiece to a second workpiece using the second optical beam. The method of claim 18, further comprising generating heat using the second optical beam in a workpiece to change material properties of the workpiece, reshape the workpiece, or remove material from the workpiece. <seperator>EP-1645548-A1<id_sep>subgroupG09G3slash28subgroup sectionHsection subgroupC03C3slash076subgroup subgroupC03C8slash24subgroup classG09class classH01class subgroupC03C3slash066subgroup subgroupH01J17slash02subgroup subgroupH01J17slash49subgroup classC03class sectionGsection subclassG09Gsubclass subgroupH01J11slash02subgroup subgroupC03C3slash093subgroup subgroupC03C3slash14subgroup subgroupC03C3slash12subgroup groupC03C8slash00group groupC03C14slash00group subgroupC03C3slash062subgroup subclassH01Jsubclass subgroupH01J17slash16subgroup subclassC03Csubclass sectionCsection Composition of glass for plasma display panel and fabrication method thereof A glass composition for a plasma display panel (PDP) and its fabrication. method are disclosed. The composition, comprising a ZnO-B The present invention relates to a plasma display panel (PDP) and, more particularly, to a composition of glass for PDP and its fabrication method. In general, a plasma display panel (PDP) device receives much attention as a next-generation display device together with a thin film transistor (TFT), a liquid crystal display (LCD), an EL (Electro-Luminescence) device, an FED (Field Emission Display) and the like. The PDP is a display device using a luminescent phenomenon according to an energy difference made when red, green and blue fluorescent materials are changed from an excited state to a ground state after being excited by 147 nm of ultraviolet rays which are generated as a He+X3 gas or N3+X3 gas is discharged from a discharge cell isolated by a barrier rib. Thanks to its properties of facilitation in manufacturing from a simple structure, a high luminance, a high light emitting efficiency, a memory function, a high non-linearity, a 160° or more optical angular field and the like, the PDP display device is anticipated to occupy large-scale display device markets. A structure of the conventional PDP will now be described with reference to Figure 1. Figure 1 is a sectional view showing a structure of a conventional PDP. As shown in Figure 1, the conventional PDP includes: a lower insulation layer 20 formed on a lower glass substrate 21; an address electrode 22 formed at a predetermined portion on the lower insulation layer 20; a lower dielectric layer 19 formed on the address electrode 22 and the lower insulation layer 20; an isolation wall 17 defined in a predetermined portion on the lower dielectric layer 19 in order to divide each discharging cell; a black matrix layer 23 formed on the isolation wall 17; a fluorescent layer 18 formed with a predetermined thickness on the side of the black matrix layer 23 and the isolation wall 17 and on the lower dielectric layer 19, and receiving ultraviolet ray and emitting each red, green and blue visible rays; a glass substrate 11; a sustain electrode 12 formed at a predetermined portion on the upper glass substrate 11 in a manner of vertically intersecting the address electrode 22; a bus electrode 12 formed on a predetermined portion on the sustain electrode 12; an upper dielectric layer 14 formed on the bus electrode 13, the sustain electrode 12 and the upper glass substrate 11; and a protection layer (MgO) 15 formed on the second upper dielectric layer 14 in order to protect the upper dielectric layer 14. The operation of the conventional PDP will now be described. First, as the upper glass substrate 11 and the lower glass substrate 21 of the conventional PDP, an SLS (Soda-Lime Silicate) glass substrate is used. The lower insulation layer 20 is positioned on the lower glass substrate 21, the SLS glass substrate, and the address electrode 22 is positioned on the lower insulation layer 20. The lower dielectric layer 19 positioned on the address electrode 22 and the lower insulation layer 20 blocks visible rays emitted toward the lower glass substrate 21. A glass composition of a PDP comprising:  The composition of claim 1 further comprising:  The composition of claim 2 comprises:  The composition of claim 3 further comprises:  The composition of claim 1, wherein the alkaline earth metal oxide is at least one of BaO, CaO, SrO and MgO, or their mixture. The composition of claim 1 further comprises:  The composition of claim 1 is mixed to a ceramic filler which is TiO The composition of claim 1 is mixed to TiO The composition of claim 1 is included in an isolation wall, an upper dielectric layer, a lower dielectric layer and a seal material of a PDP. A method for fabricating a glass composition of a PDP, comprising:  The method of claim 10, wherein the unleaded non-alkali glass powder has a particle diameter of 1∼4µm. The method of claim 10, wherein the unleaded non-alkali glass powder is contained in each composition of an isolation wall, an upper dielectric, a lower dielectric and a seal material of a PDP. A glass composition of a PDP comprising:  The composition of claim 13, wherein the alkaline earth metal oxide is at least one of BaO, CaO, SrO and MgO, or their mixture. The composition of claim 13, wherein the additive is at least one of La The composition of claim 13 is mixed to a ceramic filler and formed as an unleaded non-alkali isolation wall dielectric or an unleaded non-alkali lower dielectric, and the ceramic filler is TiO <seperator>EP-1518464-A1<id_sep>subclassA23Gsubclass subgroupA23L1slash30subgroup subgroupA23L1slash09subgroup subgroupA23G3slash54subgroup subgroupA23G1slash56subgroup groupA23G3slash00group subgroupA23G3slash34subgroup subgroupA23G1slash30subgroup subgroupA23L1slash164subgroup subclassA23Lsubclass groupA23G1slash00group sectionAsection subgroupA23G1slash54subgroup classA23class Bars and confectioneries containing cocoa solids having a high cocoa polyphenol content and sterol/stanol esters and processes for their preparation Processes are provided for preparing ready-to-eat health bars such as chocolate granola bars and chocolate confectioneries such as dark or milk chocolate chews. The bars and confectioneries contain sterol ester(s) and/or stanol esters and cocoa solids having a high cocoa procyanidin content. The cocoa solids are pretreated with the sterol/stanol ester(s) or other edible oils or fats during the preparation of the products to prevent the loss of cocoa procyanidins. Other particulate antioxidants can be pretreated with food grade fats and/or oils or emulsifiers such as lecithin to conserve their effectiveness.  BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION  The inventions relates to foods, food supplements, and or nutriceuticals containing sterol and/or stanol esters and cocoa polyphenols and processes for producing same. The products prepared by the processes of this invention have conserved levels of polyphenols. Background of the Invention Polyphenolic compounds are bioactive substances that are derived from plant materials and are closely associated with the sensory and nutritional quality of products derived from these plant materials. Many plant polyphenols have antioxidant activity and numerous health benefits. Consumption of the cocoa polyphenols in cocoa products provides significant health benefits. Cocoa polyphenols have been shown to have beneficial effects on the processes believed to be involved in the development of atherosclerosis and cardiovascular disease. Cocoa polyphenols inhibit LDL oxidation, enhance nitric oxide/nitric oxide synthase (NO/NOS) activity, and inhibit cyclo-oxygenase (COX) and lipoxygenase (LOX) activity. These effects are reported in WO 97/36497 published October 9, 1997. Cocoa polyphenols can also be used to treat or prevent conditions which are known to be affected by the administration of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, for example, aspirin. Despite the benefits of cocoa polyphenols on a number of pathways and conditions associated with induction and progression of atherosclerosis and coronary heart disease (CHD), it has been found that these compounds do not have a noticeable cholesterol-lowering effect. Thus, improved compositions containing polyphenols in combination with at least one cholesterol-lowering agent such as sterols and/or stanols or their esters have been prepared. The compositions have enhanced effects on the vascular health of a mammal, particularly a human, in comparison to previously known compositions containing polyphenols or cholesterol-lowering agents. See U.S. Patent No. 6,610,320 issued August 26, 2003 to H.H. Schmitz It is known that cocoa polphenols can be lost during the processing of cocoa ingredients containing cocoa polyphenols Foods and dietary supplements containing cocoa ingredients and cholesterol-lowering agents such as sterols and/or stanols or their have been prepared. See the '320 patent discussed above. The sterols/stanols or their esters may be added to the food or dietary supplement simply by mixing the sterol, stanol, and/or esters into the other ingredients. To facilitate mixing, the sterols/stanols may be first dissolved in a solubilizing agent such as a fat, a vegetable oil, a monoglyceride, diglyceride, or triglyceride, and/or tocopherols or suspended or emulsified in carriers such as water, alcohol polyol, or other edible compound in which the sterols/stanols or esters are at least partially soluble, for example chocolate liquor. During the preparation of a cholesterol-lowering dark chocolate, for example, the sterols/stanols may be added to the dry mix containing the sugar and the butter or less preferably they may be added to the melted chocolate. During the preparation of a toffee chew the sugar and the cocoa powder were pre-blended and then mixed with the caramel. Free phytosterols (as in pulverized) were added to the sugar and cocoa mix. During the preparation of granola bars the syrup blend was prepared by melting palm kernel oil at 45°and adding to the oil a mixture of corn syrup, glycerin, cocoa powder, brown sugar, salt, lecithin and propyl gallate and then blending in nuts or soy puffs and semi-sweet chocolate pieces. A process for producing a particulate food grade antioxidant or antioxidant-containing particles, which process comprises pretreating an antioxidant or antioxidant-containing particles with:  A process according to claim 1 wherein, in embodiment (a), the particles have a particle size of from 1 to 150 microns; the antioxidant and antioxidant-containing particles are selected from butylated hydroxyanisole, butylated hydroxytoluene, tertiary butylated hydroquinone, propyl gallate, a phenolic acid, a polyphenol, ascorbic acid, stannous chloride, a tocopherol, sulfur dioxide, and dilauryl thiodipropionate; wherein the oil and/or the fat is selected from cocoa butter, a polyol ester, a sterol ester, a stanol ester, a triglyceride, a fatty alcohol ester of a polycarboxylic acid, an esterified alkoxylated polyol, a glycerol ester, and a vegetable oil, a partially hydrogenated vegetable oil and mixtures thereof; and the emulsifier is selected from lecithin, a mono- or diglyceride, an ethoxylated mono-or diglyceride, a phospholipid, an ester of a monoglyceride and acetic, lactic, citric, succinic, or tartaric acid, a fatty acid ester of a polyglycerol, a sorbitan ester, a sucrose ester, propylene glycol, polyglycerol polyresorcinoleate, and mixtures thereof. A process according to claim 1 or claim 2 wherein, in embodiment (a), the antioxidant-containing particles are mixtures of cocoa polyphenols present in fully defatted or partially defatted cocoa solids having a particle size of from 5 to 70 microns; and the particles are pretreated with from 20% to 40% by weight of sterol ester(s) and/or stanol ester(s). A process according to claim 1, wherein, in embodiment (b), the antioxidant-containing particles are mixture of cocoa polyphenols present in fully or partially defatted cocoa solids; having a particle size of up to 150 microns and wherein the particles are pretreated with from 0.03% to 0.1% of soy lecithin. A process according to any one of claims 1 to 4 which further comprises formulating the pretreated particulate antioxidant or antioxidant-containing particles into a food or food supplement. An additive for a food or a food supplement, which additive comprises partially or fully defatted cocoa solids pretreated by mixing with  A process for preparing a binder syrup for a food or a food supplement, which process comprises mixing, at from 20°C to 160°C: (i) a syrup; and (ii) partially or fully defatted cocoa solids pretreated by mixing from 9% to 90% by weight, based on the cocoa solids, of sterol ester(s) and/or stanol ester(s) which are liquids at temperatures of 80°C or less, wherein the cocoa solids in the binder have a cocoa procyanidin content of at least 4.5 milligrams per gram of defatted cocoa solids. A binder syrup which comprises a mixture of (i) a syrup and (ii) cocoa solids which are pretreated with from 9% to 90% by weight of sterol ester(s) and/or stanol ester(s) and optionally with up to 5% by weight of a lecithin and/or up to 20% by weight of a chocolate liquor; wherein the binder syrup is liquid from 40°C to 80°C and solid at room temperature, the weights being based on the cocoa solids. A process for producing a dry, ready-to-eat food, which process comprises:  A process according to claim 9, which further comprises decorating or enrobing the formed food with chocolate, a yogurt, or a flavored sugar. A process according to claim 9 or claim 10, wherein the pretreated cocoa solids and the syrup are premixed at about 60°C to about 80°C to form a binder syrup prior to blending with the dry ingredients. A process according to any one of claim 9 to 11, wherein the cocoa solids are partially defatted cocoa solids containing from 8 to 30% fat and have a cocoa procyanidin content of from 50 to 150 milligrams; wherein the sterol ester(s) are prepared from rapeseed oil; wherein the emulsifier is selected from lecithin, a monoglyceride; a diglyceride, an ethoxylated mono-or diglyceride, a phosopholipid, an acetic, lactic, citric, succinic, or diacetyl tartaric acid ester of a monoglyceride, a polyglycerol, sorbitan, a sucrose ester, or a propylene glycol ester of a fatty acid, polyglycerol, polyresorcinoleate, and mixtures thereof; wherein the syrup further comprises an ingredient selected from a whole milk powder, a skim milk powder, a malted milk powder, a flavorant, one or more vitamins or minerals, a sugar, a salt, and mixtures thereof; and wherein the dry ingredients are selected from the group consisting of rice crisps, soy crisps, oats, bran flour, corn flour, wheat flour, rice flour, a milk protein, an egg protein, a soy protein, a whey, and combinations thereof. A process according to any one of claims 9 to 12, wherein the cocoa solids have a cocoa procyanidin content of from 50 to 80 milligrams; wherein the sterol ester(s) comprise ester of β-sitosterol, campesterol, and stigmesterol; wherein the emulsifier is lecithin; wherein the flavorant is vanilla; wherein the syrup is corn syrup having a DE of from 40 to 65; and wherein the sugar is a brown sugar and/or fructose, and wherein the dry ingredients comprise rice crisps, soy crisps, and/or oats. A dry, ready to eat, granola bar which is obtainable by a process as claimed in any one of claims 9 to 13. A process for producing a chocolate confectionery, which process comprises:  A process according to claim 15, wherein the cocoa solids have a fat content of from 8% to 30% and a cocoa procyanidin content of from 50 to 150 mg; wherein the sterol ester(s) are prepared from rapeseed oil; wherein the emulsifier is selected from lecithin, a monoglyceride, a diglyceride, an ethoxylated mono-or diglyceride, a phospholipid, an acetic, lactic, critic, succinic, or diacetyl tartaric acid ester of a monoglyceride, a polyglycerol, sorbitan, a sucrose ester; a propylene glycol ester of a fatty acid, polyglycerol, polyresorcinoleate, and mixtures thereof; wherein the chocolate liquor is a dark chocolate liquor or a milk chocolate liquor present in an amount of from 0.5% to 10%; and wherein the syrup is an aqueous solution of a nutritive carbohydrate sweetener or an artificial sweetener having a moisture content of from 5 to 25%; and wherein the syrup further comprises a gum, vitamin(s) and/or mineral(s), a sugar, and/or a flavorant. A process according to claim 16, wherein the sterol esters, the chocolate liquor, and the lecithin are premixed before mixing with the cocoa solids; and wherein the syrup is a corn syrup having a DE of about 40 to about 65. A dark chocolate or milk chocolate chew which is obtainable by a process as claimed in any one of claims 15 to 17. A chew according to claim 18 or a bar according to claim 14, which chew or bar contains about 65% to 100% of the cocoa procyanidins present in the cocoa solids. A chew or bar according to claim 19, which chew or bar contains about 90% to 100% of the cocoa procyanidins present in the cocoa solids. A dark or milk chocolate chew or a dry, ready to eat health bar, which chew or bar contains a sterol ester(s) and/or a stanol ester(s) and at least about 2 milligrams of cocoa procyanidins per gram of the chew or the bar. <seperator>EP-1477190-A1<id_sep>groupA61F2slash00group groupA61L27slash00group classA61class subgroupA61F2slash44subgroup subgroupA61L27slash04subgroup subgroupA61L27slash56subgroup subclassA61Fsubclass subclassA61Lsubclass subgroupA61F2slash28subgroup sectionAsection subgroupA61F2slash30subgroup Porous block of metallic spheres for growing bone tissue on the inside Porous block for growing bone tissue on the inside; this block is made of a metallic material or alloy, and it is singular in that it is porous. This porosity is characterized by the following: (a) it is continuous throughout the block; (b) it is formed by the residual space resulting from joining small spheres of a metallic material or alloy, the size of which ranges from 300 to 600 µm and which are connected to each other by means of a neck, providing the material with a porosity ranging from 30 to 60% (Fig. 11).   The object of the invention protected in this Patent is a "Porous block for growing bone tissue on the inside". This block is made of a metallic material or alloy, and it is singular in that it is porous. This porosity is characterized by the following: (a) it is continuous throughout the block; (b) it is formed by the residual space resulting from joining small spheres of a metallic material or alloy, the size of which ranges from 300 to 600 µm and which are connected to each other by means of a neck. These spheres provide the material with a porosity ranging from 30 to 60%.  As reference to the current state-of-the-art, it should be noted that, up until now, numerous surgical implants have used porous coatings of different characteristics to facilitate or induce the growth of bone tissue on the surface of the implant, thus improving attachment of the implant to the adjacent osseous structures. However, it seems obvious that if a porous surface coating facilitates bone tissue growth and attachment on the coated surface, an implant that has continuous porosity throughout will notably improve the levels of bone growth and attachment, thus optimising the function of the implant.  The "Porous block for growing bone tissue on the inside" is formed by joining small spheres of a metallic material, the size of which ranges from 300 to 600 µm and which are connected to each other by means of a neck. These spheres provide the material with a porosity ranging from 30 to 60%. In this way, the osseous tissue will penetrate and pass through the block and will become attached to its surface, thus achieving greater resistance upon extraction of the implant. A preferential way to execute this type of block is in the form of an intersomatic box. The intersomatic fusion consists of a bone fusion of two adjacent vertebral bodies through the space interposed between them, known as the discoid space because it is occupied under normal conditions by the inter-vertebral disk. After extirpating the disk, a bone graft, interposed between the vertebral bodies, has been used to occupy the disk space and to favour fusion. But the isolated bone is structurally unable to withstand the transmitted load and the graft often collapses. To prevent this, the use of prefabricated boxes made of metal or another firmer material has become common practice in recent years. These boxes are filled with bone and thus succeed in greatly increasing the resistance of this type of graft. However, these boxes are very unstable during the period immediately after the operation, precisely when there is a greater need for stability to favour bone growth. However, by using a box made on the basis of a porous block such as the one described above, both bone growth and attachment of the box to the adjacent vertebrae will be greater, thus favouring intersomatic fusion. On the other hand, if the pore permits bone growth through the box, this obviates the need for inserting a graft into the box. Therefore, one of the variants of this invention would be a compact porous box that does not include a prefabricated housing for the graft. POROUS BLOCK FOR GROWING BONE TISSUE ON THE INSIDE, essentially characterized by the fact that this porous block is formed by joining small spheres of a metallic material, the size of which ranges from 300 to 600 µm, and by connecting these spheres to each other by means of a neck, providing the material with a porosity that ranges from 30 to 60%. POROUS BLOCK FOR GROWING BONE TISSUE ON THE INSIDE, as per Claim 1, characterized by the fact that it consists of a body whose component spheres are of the same size. POROUS BLOCK FOR GROWING BONE TISSUE ON THE INSIDE, as per Claim 1, characterized by the fact that it consists of a body whose component spheres are not of the same size. POROUS BLOCK FOR GROWING BONE TISSUE ON THE INSIDE, as per Claim 1, characterized by the fact that it consists of a body that contains an osteo-conductive or osteo-inductive biomaterial in its pores. POROUS BLOCK FOR GROWING BONE TISSUE ON THE INSIDE, as per Claim 1, characterized by the fact that it consists of a parallelepiped suitable for use as an implant for the spinal column, more specifically as a posterior lumbar intersomatic box, as a posterior trans-foraminal intersomatic box, as a fore lumbar intersomatic box, or as a fore cervical intersomatic box. POROUS BLOCK FOR GROWING BONE TISSUE ON THE INSIDE, as per Claims 1 and 5, characterized by the fact that this parallelepiped does not contain a prefabricated housing for the graft. POROUS BLOCK FOR GROWING BONE TISSUE ON THE INSIDE, as per Claim 1, characterized by the fact that it consists of a body attached to a non-porous metal structure, for example a titanium alloy, so that it is the structure that absorbs a certain type of forces, such as implant impaction forces. POROUS BLOCK FOR GROWING BONE TISSUE ON THE INSIDE, as per Claims 1 and 7, characterized by the fact that this body does not contain a prefabricated housing for the graft. <seperator>EP-1916777-A1<id_sep>groupH04W52slash00group classH04class subclassH04Wsubclass sectionHsection subgroupH04W52slash14subgroup subclassH04Bsubclass subgroupH04W52slash32subgroup groupH04B7slash00group subgroupH04W52slash24subgroup subgroupH04B7slash005subgroup subgroupH04B7slash26subgroup Power control of point to multipoint physical channels Data is transmitted over a particular channel from a transmitter to a plurality of receivers. The particular channel is received at the plurality of receivers. Each of the receivers sends power control information to the transmitter based on a measured reception quality and a reception quality requirements of each receiver. The transmitter uses the power control information from each receiver and adjusts a transmission power level of the particular channel so that if any receiver requires an increase in the transmission power level to meet that receiver quality requirement, the transmission power level is increase and if all receivers exceed their quality requirement, the transmission power level is decreased.  FIELD OF INVENTION The present invention relates to wireless communications. More specifically, the present invention relates to power control for point to multipoint (PtM) services. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION There is a growing desire to use point to multi-point services in wireless communication systems. In point to multi-point (PtM) services, one service is sent from a single point, such as a base station, to multiple points, such as multiple wireless transmit/receive units (WTRUs). Examples of point to multi-point services are multimedia broadcasts and multicast services. In traditional point to point (PtP) services, power control allows for efficient use of radio resources. Power control allows a particular wireless transmit/receive unit (WTRU) to receive the PtP service at a desired quality of service (QoS) and minimize interference to other WTRUs. In PtP, such as for the third generation partnership project (3GPP), when the WTRU's dedicated downlink physical channel is power controlled, that WTRU typically determines a target signal to interference ratio (SIR) based on the received block error rate (BLER) of the dedicated physical channel. The WTRU estimates the received dedicated physical channel's SIR. One approach to determine the SIR is as the ratio of received signal code power (RSCP) over the interference signal code power (ISCP). When the WTRU determines that the SIR target value is greater than the calculated estimate of the received SIR value, the WTRU signals via the transmit power control (TPC) commands to the base station to increase transmit power of the downlink dedicated channel. When the SIR target value is less then the received SIR calculated estimate, TPC commands are generated to decrease DL transmit power. One channel currently proposed for potentially supporting PtM services is the forward access channel (FACH). The FACH is a channel broadcast throughout a cell and the FACH is maintained at a power level so that any user in the cell can receive the FACH. As a result, adaptive power control mechanisms are not used for the FACH. One problem with the lack of FACH power control is that a high data rate service sent over the FACH will generate considerable interference. The FACH transmission power level needs to be set at a power level so that a WTRU at the periphery of the cell can receive the high data rate service at an acceptable quality. Accordingly, it is desirable to have adaptive power control for PtM services. SUMMARY Data is transmitted over a particular channel from a transmitter to a plurality of receivers. The particular channel is received at the plurality of receivers. Each of the receivers sends power control information to the transmitter based on a measured reception quality and a reception quality requirements of each receiver. The transmitter uses the power control information from each receiver and adjusts a transmission power level of the particular channel so that if any receiver requires an increase in the transmission power level to meet that receiver quality requirement, the transmission power level is increased and if all receivers exceed their quality requirement, the transmission power level is decreased. A method for transferring data in a wireless communication system, the method comprising:  The method of claim 1 wherein the particular channel is a shared channel. The method of claim 1 wherein the particular channel is a high speed shared channel. The method of claim 1 wherein the power control information received includes transmit power control commands. The method of claim 1 wherein the measured reception quality is a signal to interference ratio and the receiver quality requirement is a target signal to interference ratio. The method of claim 1 wherein the measured reception quality is a reception quality of the particular channel. The method of claim 1 wherein for at least one of the receivers, the particular channel has an associated dedicated channel and the measured reception quality is of the associated dedicated channel. The method of claim 1 wherein for each of the receivers, the particular channel has an associated dedicated channel and the measured reception quality is of the associated dedicated channel. A base station for transferring data over a particular channel to multiple users, the base station comprising:  The base station of claim 9 wherein the particular channel is a shared channel. The base station of claim 9 wherein the particular channel is a high speed shared channel. The base station of claim 9 wherein the power control information received from each user includes transmit power control commands. The base station of claim 9 wherein the base station establishes for each user a dedicated channel associated with the particular channel. The base station of claim 9 wherein the base station has for at least one of the users a dedicated channel associated with the particular channel. A base station for transferring data over a particular channel to multiple users, the base station comprising:  The base station of claim 15 wherein the particular channel is a shared channel. The base station of claim 15 wherein the particular channel is a high speed shared channel. The base station of claim 15 wherein the power control information received from each user includes transmit power control commands. The base station of claim 15 wherein the base station establishes for each user a dedicated channel associated with the particular channel. The base station of claim 15 wherein the base station has for at least one of the users a dedicated channel associated with the particular channel. A wireless transmit/receive unit for receiving data over a particular channel, the wireless transmit/receive unit comprising:  The wireless transmit/receive unit of claim 21 wherein the measured reception quality is a signal to interference ratio and the reception quality requirement is a target signal to interference ratio. The wireless transmit/receive unit of claim 21 wherein the measured reception quality is a reception quality of the particular channel. The wireless transmit/receive unit of claim 21 further comprising a dedicated channel receiver and wherein the measured reception quality is of the dedicated channel. A wireless transmit/receive unit for receiving data over a particular channel, the wireless transmit/receive unit comprising:  The wireless transmit/receive unit of claim 25 wherein the measured reception quality is a signal to interference ratio and the reception quality requirement is a target signal to interference ratio. The wireless transmit/receive unit of claim 25 wherein the measured reception quality is a reception quality of the particular channel. The wireless transmit/receive unit of claim 25 further comprising circuitry configured to receive a dedicated channel and wherein the measured reception quality is of the dedicated channel. <seperator>EP-1440960-A1<id_sep>subgroupC07C37slash50subgroup subclassC07Bsubclass classC07class groupC07B61slash00group groupC07C39slash00group sectionCsection groupC07C37slash00group subgroupC07C39slash15subgroup subclassC07Csubclass Method of producing 4,4-biphenol A method for producing 4,4'-biphenol, comprising the steps of:  The present invention relates to a method of producing 4,4'-biphenol, more specifically a method of producing 4,4'-biphenol with high efficiency and yield, in which 3,3',5,5'-tetra-t-butyl-4,4'-biphenol is sequentially debutylated under relatively mild reaction conditions using reaction baths arranged in series for two or more steps. 4,4'-Biphenol (hereinafter referred to as BP) can be obtained by a debutylation reaction of 3,3',5,5'-tetra-t-butyl-4,4'-biphenol (hereinafter referred to as TBBP) and has been utilized as a raw material for liquid crystal polymers, super engineering plastics, and the like. Conventionally, as a method for producing BP by a debutylation reaction of TBBP, a process by batch reaction is known (for example, see Japanese Patent Publication Laid-open No. 63-301837). A debutylation reaction of TBBP in the presence of an acid catalyst takes place sequentially and tri-t-butylbiphenol, di-t-butylbiphenol, mono-t-butylbiphenol and 4,4'-biphenol are produced one by one in this order; however, the rate of the debutylation reaction decreases with the decrease in the number of t-butyl groups. In particular, in order to debutylate mono-t-butylbiphenol with high yield, severe reaction conditions, such as a reaction temperature as high as 250°C or higher and an extended reaction time, have to be used. Further, since a finally produced BP has an extremely low solubility in a reaction solvent, deposition of the product in the reaction solvent has to be controlled, for example, by using a large volume of the reaction solvent. On the other hand, since generally a sequential process is economically advantageous over a batch process in industrial production of a large amount of chemicals, a sequential process for producing BP has been already suggested, in which TBBP is debutylated in a reaction solvent using serially arranged reaction baths for multiple steps (for example, see Japanese Patent Publication Laid-open No. H05-331087). Thus, the abovementioned problem associated with sequential reactions has to be solved also in the sequential debutylation reaction of TBBP using serially arranged reaction for multiple steps. Accordingly, in the abovementioned method, a substituted aromatic hydrocarbon such as diethylbenzene is used as a reaction solvent and an acid catalyst is added in portions to each of the reaction baths for multiple steps in an attempt to solve the abovementioned problem associated with sequential reactions. However, according to the abovementioned method, as mentioned above, the catalyst has to be added in portions to each of the reaction baths for multiple steps, which makes the reaction and operation complicated. Further, a colored impurity remains in the reaction product due to the catalyst used, which requires a purification process such as washing of the resulting reaction mixture with an alcohol mixture solvent after completing the reaction. Moreover, in the abovementioned method, when crude (unpurified) TBBP containing butylphenols, which is a reaction mixture of oxidation coupling reaction from 2,6-di-t-butylphenol, is used as a raw material, the reaction solvent becomes a mixture of butylphenols and a substituted aromatic hydrocarbon such as diethylbenzene, which also complicates fractionation and recovery of the solvent after the reaction. An object of the present invention is to solve the abovementioned problem in the sequential debutylation reaction of TBBP using serially arranged reaction baths for multiple steps and to provide a method of sequentially producing 4,4'-biphenol under relatively mild reaction conditions with improved production yield and efficiency. A method for producing 4,4'-biphenol, comprising the steps of:  The method according to Claim 1, wherein said monoalkylphenols, dialkylphenols, and trialkylphenols are monobutylphenols, dibutylphenols and tributylphenols, respectively. The method according to Claim 1, wherein said at least one kind of phenol is phenol, p-t-butylphenol, or a mixture of phenol and p-t-butylphenol. The method according to any one of Claims 1 to 3, wherein, when a reaction apparatus comprising serially arranged reaction baths for two steps is used, the solvent for addition to a reaction bath for the former step is a solvent having an average number of alkyl groups ranging from 0.8 to 3, and the solvent for addition to a reaction bath for the latter step is a solvent having an average number ranging from 0 to 0.5. The method according to any one of Claims 1 to 4, wherein a total amount of solvents contained in all reaction baths is from 1 to 10 mole parts per one mole part of 3,3',5,5'-tetra-t-butyl-4,4'-biphenol. The method according to any one of Claims 1 to 5, wherein said acid catalyst is an organic sulfonic acid. The method according to any one of Claims 1 to 6, wherein a reaction temperature for the debutylation reaction is from 150 to 250°C. The method according to any one of Claims 1 to 7, wherein the number of said reaction baths is from 2 to 5 steps. The method according to any one of Claims 1 to 8, wherein the reaction baths for two or more steps are independent baths each arranged in series. The method according to any one of Claims 1 to 8, wherein the reaction baths for two or more steps are formed by serially partitioning the interior of a single reaction vessel into multiple reaction segments. <seperator>EP-1574143-A2<id_sep>classA43class subgroupA43B3slash24subgroup groupA43C15slash00group subgroupA43C15slash16subgroup subclassA43Csubclass groupA43B17slash00group groupA43B5slash00group subgroupA43B23slash02subgroup groupA43B3slash00group subgroupA43B5slash02subgroup subclassA43Bsubclass sectionAsection subgroupA43C15slash02subgroup Studded shoe A studded shoe is provided comprising a sock-like upper (1) with an upper side (2) and a lower side (3), a chassis (10) releasably arranged in the interior of the upper and a plurality of studs (30), wherein each stud is releasably attached to the chassis through the lower side of the sock-like upper. The lower side (3) of the sock-like upper is preferably clamped between the chassis (10) and at least one of the plurality of attached studs (30).  1.  The present invention relates to a modular studded shoe and its components. 2.  Similar to other sports shoes, studded shoes, such as soccer shoes, are nowadays mass products of the industry. In the early days of soccer, soccer shoes were individually manufactured by a craftsman. The shoe maker did not only take into account the specific anatomy of the player but also his preferences concerning for example the selection of materials or the outer design of the shoe. Mass produced soccer shoes, however, apart from being provided in a series of predetermined sizes generally have the same properties such as color, shape, hardness of the sole etc.. An individual adaptation to anatomic requirements and aesthetic preferences of the player is, if at all, only possible to a limited extent. Several approaches are known in the prior art to provide exchangeable studs, which allow the adaptation of the gripping properties of a studded shoe to changing ground conditions. As an example for the large number of constructions known in the prior art, the well-known screw studs are mentioned, wherein the stud comprises a screw-like projection, which is releasably screwed into the threads contained in the recess of the shoe sole. Apart from the exchange of studs, there are no possibilities for an individual adaptation of a studded shoe, such as a soccer shoe. On the contrary, it is a firm belief in the prior art that a studded shoe, which is subjected to high mechanical loads during use, has to be provided as a compact and stable arrangement of permanently interconnected components (sole, upper, etc.). Only the studs can be replaced in the described manner or an additional inlay sole may be used. Properties such as the shape, the hardness, the weight of the sole as well as properties of the upper, such a the lacing system used, its ventilation properties or - in case of soccer shoes - structural elements on the upper for improving the accuracy of a shot, are not adaptable until now. This distinguishes studded shoes fundamentally from other types of shoes, for example dress shoes for women, for which a kind of toolbox system is known from the DE 202 08 713 U1. The DE 2 216 252 discloses a sports shoe, wherein the upper is directly attached to a rigid sole element. The sole element comprises threads for releasably attaching spikes. The DE 697 10 156 T2 discloses a method for the assembly of a shoe on a frame of a sports device. A unit comprising the upper and an insert is initially preassembled before being permanently attached to a mounting sole using nails or a glue. Finally, the assembly is attached to a chassis, which serves as a frame for receiving wheels of an inline skate or the blade of an ice-skate. In view of the prior art, it has been found that there is a considerable need for possibilities to individualize studded shoes to a greater extent for taking biomechanical requirements or aesthetic preferences of a player into account. The present invention is therefore based on the problem to provide a studded shoe which can be better adapted to the requirements and preferences of a player than constructions known in the prior art. Studded shoe, comprising:  Studded shoe according to claim 1, wherein the lower side (3) of the sock-like upper (1) is clamped between the chassis (10) and at least one of the plurality of mounted studs (30). Studded shoe according to any of the claims 1 or 2, wherein the sock-like upper (1) comprises a reinforcement (5) in the heel part and/or in the toe part. Studded shoe according to any of the claims 1 to 3, wherein the lower side (3) of the sock-like upper (1) comprises a coating (6) for avoiding an adhesion of dirt. Studded shoe according to any of the claims 1 to 4 further comprising a seal (32) avoiding the penetration of dirt into the interior of the sock-like upper (1) through its lower side (3). Studded shoe according to claim 5, wherein the seal (32) is arranged at the upper rim of each of the plurality of studs (30). Studded shoe according to any of the claims 1 to 6, wherein a first mounting means (38) of the stud (30) is designed to correspond in shape and mate with a second mounting means of the chassis so that the stud (30) is attached to the chassis (10) in a manner secured against rotation. Studded shoe according to claim 7, wherein the stud (30) comprises an oblong recess (38) engaged by a corresponding projection (11) of the second mounting means. Studded shoe according to claim 7 or 8, wherein the first mounting means comprises a screw (31), which engages threads (12) of the second mounting means. Studded shoe according to claim 9, wherein the screw (31) is arranged in the stud (30) such that it contributes to improving the grip of the shoe. Studded shoe according to any of the claims 1 to 10, wherein at least one stud (30) has an oblong shape. Studded shoe according to claim 11, wherein several oblong studs (30) are arranged at the chassis (10) so that they are secured against rotation and have a different orientation. Stud (30) for a studded shoe according to any of the claims 1 to 12, comprising:  Stud (30) according to claim 13, wherein the first mounting means (31, 38) is designed to correspond in shape and mate with the second mounting means of the chassis, so that the stud (30) is attachable to the chassis (10) in a manner secured against rotation. Stud (30) according to claim 14, wherein the stud (33) comprises an oblong recess (38) which can be engaged by a corresponding projection (11) of the second mounting means. Stud (30) according to claim 15, wherein the first mounting means comprises a screw (31) which can also penetrate the ground. Stud (30) according to claim 16, wherein the screw (31) exceeds the stud body (33) in a downward direction. Chassis (10) for a releasable interconnection to an upper (1) and a plurality of studs (30) to provide a studded shoe according to any of the claims 1 to 12, comprising:  Chassis (10) according to claim 18, wherein the plurality of projections (11) are each designed to correspond in shape and mate with corresponding recesses (38) in the plurality of studs (30). Chassis (10) according to claim 19, wherein the plurality of oblong projections (11) have different orientations. Chassis (10) according to claim 20, wherein the projections (11) taper and comprise threads in their centre. Sock-like upper (1) for a releasable interconnection to a chassis (10) and a plurality of studs (30) to provide a studded shoe according to any of the claims 1 to 12, comprising:  Sock-like upper (1) according to claim 22, wherein the upper (1) comprises an additional reinforcement (5) in the heel part and/or in the toe part. Sock-like upper (1) according to claim 22, wherein the lower side (3) comprises a coating (6) to reduce the adhesion of dirt or the like to the underside of the upper. <seperator>EP-1580881-A2<id_sep>groupG11C27slash00group subclassH03Fsubclass classH03class sectionHsection subgroupH03G3slash30subgroup subgroupH03F3slash21subgroup groupH03K17slash00group subclassG11Csubclass subgroupG11C27slash02subgroup classH04class subclassH04Bsubclass sectionGsection subgroupH04B1slash04subgroup classG11class subgroupH03G3slash20subgroup subgroupH03F3slash20subgroup groupH03G3slash00group groupH03K5slash00group groupH04B1slash00group subclassH03Gsubclass subgroupH03F1slash30subgroup subclassH03Ksubclass High-frequency power amplifier and communication apparatus A temperature compensation circuit (145) included in a collector voltage generation section (130a) applies an offset voltage Vofs(T) to a power control signal Vctrl according to a device temperature. The resulting temperature compensation circuit output voltage Vctrl' (T) is applied to a collector terminal of a bipolar transistor (110) through a voltage regulator (140) and a choke inductor (170).  The present invention relates to a high-frequency power amplifier for use in mobile communication devices and the like, and a communication apparatus having such a high-frequency power amplifier. A high-frequency power amplifier for use in mobile phone terminals of GSM (Global System for Mobile Communications) system and the like, controls the magnitude of the output power based on the distance thereof from the base station. FIG. 17 is a circuit diagram illustrating a high-frequency power amplifier 10 (hereinafter referred to as the "amplifier 10") which is an exemplary conventional high-frequency power amplifier. The amplifier 10 includes a bipolar transistor 11, a base bias circuit 12, a voltage regulator 14, an RF choke inductor 17, an inputmatching circuit 15, and an output matching circuit 16. The RF choke inductor 17 and the voltage regulator 14 are sequentially connected in this order to a collector terminal of the bipolar transistor 11. A power control signal Vctrl for adjusting the signal amplification level of the bipolar transistor 11 is inputted to the voltage regulator 14. An emitter terminal of the bipolar transistor 11 is grounded. A high-frequency input signal RFin is inputted to a base terminal of the bipolar transistor 11 through the input matching circuit 15. The base bias circuit 12 adjusts the magnitude of a base voltage Vbb. The high-frequency input signal RFin is amplified by the bipolar transistor 11 and then outputted as a high-frequency output signal RFout from the collector terminal of the bipolar transistor 11 through the output matching circuit 16. In the case where the input power to the base terminal is sufficiently high and the bipolar transistor 11 operates as a saturation amplifier, an output power proportional to almost the square of collector voltage Vcc can be obtained with respect to a given input power. Note that although, for simplification, FIG. 17 shows a single-stage amplifier 10, normally, an amplifier 10 in which bipolar transistors 11 are cascade-connected in two or three stages is used. In communication systems such as EDGE (Enhanced Data Rate for GSM Evolution), a technique called a polar modulation is used. In this case, as a power control signal Vctrl, an amplitude modulation signal is inputted to the collector terminal, and thereby amplitude modulation is performed, which is described in International Publication No. WO-02/101944, for example. The output power of the amplifier 10 changes with the device temperature of the bipolar transistor 11 even if the collector voltage Vcc and the base voltage Vbb are constant. Therefore, conventionally, by adjusting the base voltage Vbb in the base bias circuit 12 based on the temperature, temperature-dependent variations in output power are minimized, which is described in, for example, Japanese Examined Patent Publication No. 8-28617 and Japanese Laid-Open Patent Publications No. 2001-176982 and No. 2002-9558. However, even if temperature compensation is thus performed on the base voltage Vbb, in the case of low output where the collector voltage Vcc is low, more specifically, in the case where the bipolar transistor is used in a saturation region, output voltage fluctuations caused by changes in temperature cannot be sufficiently minimized. FIG. 18 is a diagram showing the relationship between the collector voltage Vcc and the output power of a conventional high-frequency power amplifier for the GSM system for the case where the device temperature is 90°C, 30°C, and -30°C. It can be seen from FIG. 18 that in the region where the collector voltage Vcc is less than 0.6 V, the lower the collector voltage Vcc, the greater the change in output power with the temperature. A high-frequency power amplifier including a bipolar transistor (110) and a base bias circuit (120) for applying a base voltageto the bipolar transistor(110), the amplifier comprising:  The high-frequency power amplifier according to claim 1, characterized in that the collector voltage generation section (130a to 130d) applies, as a collector offset voltage, a voltage having a difference between a reference collector voltage at which a desired collector current is obtained at a reference temperature and a collector voltage required to obtain the desired collector current at actual temperature, to the reference collector voltage. The high-frequency power amplifier according to claim 1, characterized in that the temperature compensation circuit (145) includes: The high-frequency power amplifier according to claim 1, characterized in that the temperature compensation circuit (145) includes:  The high-frequency power amplifier according to claim 1, characterized in that the collector voltage generation section (130a to 130d) includes a voltage regulator (140). The high-frequency power amplifier according to claim 1, characterized in that the collector voltage generation section (130d) includes a DC/DC converter (610). The high-frequency power amplifier according to claim 1, characterized in that the collector voltage generation section (130a to 130d) includes:  The high-frequency power amplifier according to claim 1, characterized in that the power control signal (Vctrl) is an amplitude modulation signal. The high-frequency power amplifier according to claim 1, characterized in that    there are a plurality of the bipolar transistors (110) , and    the plurality of the bipolar transistors (110) are connected in multiple stages. A communication apparatus including a baseband circuit (710) ; a converter (710) for converting an output signal of the baseband circuit (710) into an amplitude modulation signal (Vctrl) and a phase modulation signal (Vphase); a bipolar transistor (110) having a collector terminal to which the amplitude modulation signal (Vctrl) is inputted; a voltage controlled oscillator (750) for controlling an oscillatory frequency based on the phase modulation signal (Vphase); and a base bias circuit (120) for applying a base voltage to the bipolar transistor (110) , the communication apparatus comprising:  <seperator>EP-1514886-A1<id_sep>subgroupC08G18slash08subgroup classE02class sectionEsection groupC08G18slash00group subgroupE02B5slash02subgroup groupE02B5slash00group sectionCsection subgroupC08G18slash70subgroup subclassC08Gsubclass subclassE02Bsubclass classC08class Geotextile/Polymer composite liners based on waterborne resins The present invention relates to a geotextile/polymer composite prepared from one or more geotextiles and an aqueous polymer dispersion and also to a process for preparing such composites. The inventive composites may find use as liners for canals and ditches for irrigation and wastewater, roof membranes, secondary containment, etc. TECHNICAL FIELD OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to a geotextile/polymer composite liner prepared by treating geotextiles with aqueous polymer dispersions and subsequent evaporation of the water. Geotextile/polymer composites of the present invention can be used as liners for canals and ditches for irrigation and wastewater, roof membranes, secondary containment, etc. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION In recent years, the management of natural resources has become important in many countries throughout the world. Efforts have been directed both toward the conservation of our resources and toward the elimination of pollution from our environment. Particular emphasis has been placed on waste leakage and water loss. Losses in the distribution of water using unlined irrigation ditches are estimated at a minimum to be 25 % and in some situations to be more than 50 % depending upon the porosity of the ditch surface and the distance the water is being moved. In most rural areas, ditches are typically formed by excavating the soil to the desired depth and width. The water moves through the ditch in contact with the exposed natural surface. This can be sand, clay, rocks, etc. and, more commonly, mixtures thereof. The porosity will depend upon the proportions of the different components. The loss of water in unlined irrigation ditches at one time was considered acceptable only because the supply of water exceeded demand. However, as civilization developed and world population increased, more water was required for both greater food production and for the marked increase in non-agriculture uses. In addition to greater domestic uses in sanitation, industry now employs large quantities of water in manufacturing and processing procedures. This high level of consumption plus the very high cost of developing new water supplies has shifted attention to water conservation. Domestic appliances that use less water have been developed. Also, industry has installed recycling purification systems to reduce water consumption. Although conservation efforts have reduced water consumption to a degree, water still is in relatively short supply, particularly in recent years with the severe droughts in the United States and other countries. Since the most cost effective conservation opportunities and readily accessible water supplies already have been developed, greater attention must be directed to improving the efficiency of water distribution systems. Improvements in water distribution have been made. A limited number of ditches and canals have been lined with concrete and/or preformed concrete pipes. Concrete is durable and has a long life when properly used. However, concrete is expensive to place and finish and is damaged by unfavorable temperatures during curing. Also, concrete is subject to frost damage, cracking and heaving which results in leaks. Processes for forming polyurethane composite liners for canals and ditches and apparatuses to perform such a processes are disclosed, for example, in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,872,784; 4,955,759; 4,955,760; 5,049,006; 5,062,740; 5,421,677; and 5,607,998. U.S. Pat. No. 5,421,677 ("the '677 patent") is directed to an improved process of forming a ditch liner. The mixture of the '677 patent is a two component polyurethane resin and one or more fillers in an amount of up to 60% by weight based upon the total weight of the mixture. The mixture is dispensed on a geotextile, thereby forming a liquid filler containing polyurethane soaked geotextile composite. The liquid polyurethane soaked geotextile composite is then placed over the surface of an area to be lined. A geotextile/polymer composite comprising:  A liner for irrigation canals and ditches comprising the composite according to Claim 1. The composite according to Claim 1, wherein the aqueous polymer composition has a solid content of about 30 to about 50 % by weight. The composite according to Claim 1, wherein the aqueous polymer composition forms continuous polymer films at temperatures between about 2°C and about 50°C upon evaporation of water. The composite according to Claim 1, wherein the aqueous polymer composition forms continuous polymer films with an elongation of at least about 5 % and a tensile strength of at least about 200 psi. The composite according to Claim 1, wherein the water absorption of the polymer is less than about 10 % by weight. The composite according to Claim 1, wherein the water absorption of the polymer is less than about 5 % by weight. The composite according to Claim 1, wherein the one or more geotextiles includes at least one thicker, more sponge-like geotextile. The composite according to Claim 1, wherein the one or more geotextiles are soaked with sufficient aqueous polymer composition such that the amount of polymer present in the composite ranges from about 1 kg to about 20 kg of polymer per square meter of geotextile. The composite according to Claim 1 in which one or more geotextiles are soaked with sufficient aqueous polymer composition that the amount of polymer present in the composite ranges from 2 kg to 5 kg of polymer per square meter of geotextile. The composite according to Claim 1 having a thickness of from about 40 microns to about 500 microns. A process of forming a geotextile/polymer composite comprising the steps of:  A liner for irrigation canals and ditches made by the process according to Claim 12. The process according to Claim 12, wherein the aqueous polymer composition has a solid content of about 30 to about 50% by weight. The process according to Claim 12, wherein the aqueous polymer composition forms continuous polymer films at temperatures between about 2°C and about 50°C upon evaporation of the water. The process according to Claim 12, wherein the aqueous polymer composition forms continuous polymer films with an elongation of at least about 5 % and a tensile strength of at least about 200 psi. The process according to Claim 12, wherein the one or more geotextiles includes at least one thicker, more sponge-like geotextile. The process according to Claim 12, wherein the one or more geotextiles are soaked with sufficient aqueous polymer composition such that the amount of polymer present in the composite ranges from about 0.2 kg to about 20 kg of polymer per square meter of geotextile. The process according to Claim 12, wherein the one or more geotextiles are soaked with sufficient aqueous polymer composition such that the amount of polymer present in the composite ranges from about 0.5 kg to about 5 kg of polymer per square meter of geotextile. In a process of lining canals and ditches, the improvement comprising including the composite according to Claim 1. In a process of lining canals and ditches, the improvement comprising including the composite made by the process according to Claim 12. <seperator>EP-1342735-A2<id_sep>groupC08F4slash00group groupC09D133slash00group classC09class groupC08F20slash00group subclassC08Fsubclass subgroupC08F2slash06subgroup groupC08F2slash00group subgroupC09D5slash03subgroup sectionCsection subgroupC08F2slash04subgroup subclassC09Dsubclass classC08class Process for the production of high-solids coatings resins via controlled radical polymerisation Processes for the controlled radical polymerization of acrylic and related polymers to  produce low VOC coating materials, or powder coating compositions, the  polymers so produced, the catalyst systems employed, processes for application of the  coatings , coatings so produced and objects coated on at least one  surface with the coatings are disclosed.  BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to compositions of matter classified in the art of chemistry as low volatile organic compound ("VOC") liquid coating compositions, more specifically to such low VOC liquid coating compositions based on polymers derived from polymerization of acrylic monomers, to processes for their preparation and use, to coatings derived therefrom and to objects coated on at least one surface thereof with such coatings. Increasingly stringent emissions regulations have increased the need on the part of makers of acrylic lacquers and paints for formulations which provide the desirable characteristics associated with such lacquers and paints but with reduced VOC content. One way to achieve such formulations is to increase the solids content of the formulations while maintaining the viscosity of the paint or lacquer within the range required for application, usually spraying, and thereby reduce the amount of VOCs emitted when a given amount of surface area is coated. Spray application requires low viscosity. Viscosity is directly related to polydispersity (as this term is further defined hereinafter) and concentration of the resin(s) in the paint or lacquer formulation. In order to maintain low viscosity at high resin solids content, low polydispersity of the resin(s) is necessary. RELATED ART U.S. Patent 4,777,230 discloses that t-amyl peroxides and peroxides of similar structure provide polydispersity as low as 2 in solution polymerization of acrylic resins. Organometallic complexes and thio compounds have been shown to provide controlled polymerization reactions, see Macromolecules, Controlled radical polymerizations using TEMPO (2,2,6,6-tetramethyl-1-piperidinyloxy radical) and analogous compounds as well as their alkoxyamine analogs have been reported to produce desirable properties for vinyl polymerizations. See, for example, U.S. Patent 5,322,912, Macromolecules, In Chapter 14 of "Controlled Radical Polymerization", Matyjaszewski, K., Ed. ACS Publication Division and Oxford Univ. Press, ACS Symp. Ser. 685,225, SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION The invention provides in a first process aspect, a process for the free radical solution polymerization to a level of solids suitable for use as low volatile organic solvent coating compositions while maintaining viscosity suitable for such coating compositions of monomers comprising substituted or unsubstituted acrylic acid, or esters thereof in a solvent suitable for high solids coating application at a monomer concentration sufficient to give the desired polymer concentration which comprises treating said monomers in said solvent with a controlled free radical initiator selected from the group N,N-dialkyl-alkoxyamines having one hydrogen atom on one carbon atom in the α position of one alkyl group attached to the amino nitrogen, N,N-dialkyl-nitroxyl radicals having one hydrogen atom on one carbon atom in the α position of one alkyl group attached to the nitroxyl nitrogen and mixtures thereof. The tangible embodiments produced by the first process aspect of the invention are solutions containing acrylic polymers having number average molecular weights of less than 20,000, preferably less than 6000 as determined by standard methods well known in the art as set forth hereinafter and a narrow molecular weight distribution, or polydispersity, of less than 2, preferably less than 1.5, as determined by standard methods well known in the art as set forth hereinafter. The reduced molecular weight and narrow polydispersity provide solutions of reduced viscosity allowing for higher solids content at a desired viscosity, thus, providing coating solutions with reduced organic solvent emissions per unit area of surface coated. The lowered viscosity also allows use of polymers with higher molecular weights, if desired, which provides improved physical properties such as hardness and mar resistance. Narrow polydispersity results in fewer monofunctional and nonfunctional chains which also leads to better physical properties. Residual nitroxyl groups attached to the polymer chain are expected to provide light stabilization, thus, providing improved light, particularly ultraviolet (UV) light, resistance and improved weathering properties. A process for the controlled free radical solution polymerization to a level of  solids suitable for use as low volatile organic solvent coating compositions while maintaining  viscosity suitable for such coatings of monomers comprising substituted or unsubstituted acrylic  acid, or esters thereof in a solvent suitable for high solids coating application at a monomer  concentration sufficient to give the desired polymer concentration which comprises treating said  monomers in said solvent with a controlled free radical initiator selected from the group N,N-dialkyl-alkoxyamines  having one hydrogen atom on one carbon atom in the α position of one  alkyl group attached to the amino nitrogen, nitroxyl radicals having one hydrogen atom on one  carbon atom in the α position of one alkyl group attached to the nitroxyl nitrogen and mixtures  thereof.  A process as defined in claim 1 wherein the alkoxyamine has the structure II:    Wherein R1, R2, R3, R4,and R5 are independently selected from the group consisting of  straight chain alkyl, branched chain alkyl and cyclic alkyl, substituted, or unsubstituted  aralkyl, and substituted or unsubstituted aryl groups having from 1 to 50 carbon atoms,  with the proviso that one of said R moieties be substituted with, or contain sulfur, or  phosphorous and any two of R1, R2, R3, R4 and R5 which do not contain sulfur, or  phosphorous, and which are attached to the same carbon atom, may be concatenated to  form, when taken together with the carbon atom to which they are attached, a cyclic alkyl  group of from 5 to 20 carbon atoms and Z is selected from the following groups, wherein    the dashed line attached to the carbon atom represents either a free electron or the point of  attachment to the oxygen atom of the original alkoxyamine as appropriate:   A process as defined in claim 1 wherein the nitroxyl radical has the structure I:     wherein R1, R2, R3, R4 and R5 are independently selected from the group consisting of  straight chain alkyl, branched chain alkyl, cyclic alkyl, substituted, or unsubstituted  aralkyl, or substituted, or unsubstituted aryl groups having from 1 to 50 carbon atoms,  with the proviso that one of said R moieties be substituted with, or contain sulfur or  phosphorous and any two of R1, R2, R3, R4 and R5 which do not contain sulfur, or  phosphorous, and which are attached to the same carbon atom, may be concatenated to  form, when taken together with the carbon atom to which they are attached, a cyclic alkyl  group of from 5 to 20 carbon atoms.  A process as defined in claim 1 wherein the controlled free radical initiator is an  alkoxyamine selected from the group consisting of methyl 2-[N-t-butyl-N-(1-diethylphosphono-2,2-dimethylpropyl)-N-oxy]propionate,  1-phenyl-1-[N-t-butyl-N-(1-diethylphosphono-2,2-dimethylpropyl)-N-oxy]ethane,  1,1-dimethyl-1-[N-t-butyl-N-(1-diethylphosphono-2,2-dimethylpropyl)-N-oxy]ethane,  1-methyl-1-cyano-1-[N-t-butyl-N-(1-diethyphosphono-2,2-dimethylpropyl)-N-oxy]ethane  and mixtures thereof.  A process as defined in claim 1 wherein the controlled free radical initiator is the  alkoxyamine methyl 2-[N-t-butyl-N-(1-diethylphosphono-2,2-dimethylpropyl)-N-oxy]propionate.  A process as defined in claim 1 wherein the controlled free radical initiator comprises a  mixture of alkoxyamines as defined in claim 2 and nitroxyl radicals as defined in claim 3.  A process as defined in claim 4 wherein the controlled free radical initiator also includes  nitroxyls derived from the alkoxyamine selected from the group defined in claim 4.  A process as defined in claim 5 wherein the controlled free radical initiator also includes  a nitroxyl radical derived from the alkoxyamine.  A process as defined in claim 1 also including an organic peroxide initiator or an  azonitrile initiator.  A process as defined in claim 1 wherein the monomers comprising substituted or  unsubstituted acrylic acid or esters thereof are selected from the group consisting of:   A process as defined in claim 10 wherein a monomer selected from the group styrene,  para-methyl styrene, vinyl acetate and mixtures thereof is also present.  A process as defined in claim 11 wherein the monomers comprise butyl acrylate,  hydroxyethyl acrylate, styrene and acrylic acid.  A process as defined in 11 wherein the monomers comprise glycidyl methacrylate, butyl  methacrylate, ethyl acrylate, methyl acrylate, methyl methacrylate, methacrylic acid,  hydroxypropyl acrylate, hydroxypropyl methacrylate, acetoacetoxy ethyl acrylate, acetoacetoxy  ethyl methacrylate and mixtures thereof.  The product produced by a process as defined in claim 1.  A process for coating an object on at least one surface which comprises applying a  product as defined in claim 14 to said at least one surface and treating said product after  application on said at least one surface to sufficient heat for a sufficient time to evaporate the  solvent contained in said product and crosslink the remaining material of said product on said at  least one surface.  The coating produced by the process defined in claim 15.  The coated object produced by the process defined in claim 15.  A process as defined in claim 1 wherein the polymer so produced is recovered as a  solvent free material.  A powder coating material prepared from the solvent free material prepared as defined in  claim 18.  An object coated on at least one surface thereof with a coating formed by applying the  powder coating material defined in claim 19 to the said at least one surface of said object and  fusing said powder coating material into a coherent coating.  A process as defined in claim 2 wherein one of R1, R2, R3, R4, or R5 is -P(=O)R6R7  wherein R6 and R7 are independently selected from the group consisting of methyl, methoxy,  ethoxy, n-propoxy, benzyloxy, dodecyloxy, phenyl and benzyl.  A process as defined in claim 3 wherein one of R1, R2, R3, R4, or R5 is -P(=O)R6R7  wherein R6 and R7 are independently selected from the group consisting of methyl, methoxy,  ethoxy, n-propoxy, benzyloxy, dodecyloxy, phenyl and benzyl.  A process as defined in claim 6 wherein, independently in the alkoxyamine and the  nitroxyl, one of R1, R2, R3, R4, or R5 is -P(=O)R6R7  wherein R6 and R7 are independently selected from the group consisting of methyl, methoxy,  ethoxy, n-propoxy, benzyloxy, dodecyloxy, phenyl and benzyl.  A process as defined in claim 2 wherein R1, R2 and R3 are methyl, R4 is t-butyl and R5 is  -P(=O)R6R7 wherein R6 and R7 are independently selected from straight chain alkyl, branched  chain alkyl, or cyclic alkyl groups, aralkyl groups having straight chain alkyl, branched chain  alkyl, or cyclic alkyl portions, straight chain alkoxy, branched chain alkoxy, or cyclic alkoxy  groups and aralkoxy groups having straight chain alkoxy, branched chain alkoxy, or cyclic  alkoxy portions and all of said groups may be unsubstituted or substituted with any functional  group compatible with a nitroxyl radical.  A process as defined in claim 24 wherein R6 and R7 are linear alkoxy groups of from 1 to  20 carbon atoms.  A process as defined in claim 24 wherein R6 and R7 are ethoxy.  A process as defined in claim 3 wherein R1, R2 and R3 are methyl, R4 is t-butyl and R5 is  -P(=O)R6R7 wherein R6 and R7 are independently selected from straight chain alkyl, branched  chain alkyl, or cyclic alkyl groups, aralkyl groups having straight chain alkyl, branched chain  alkyl, or cyclic alkyl portions, straight chain alkoxy, branched chain alkoxy, or cyclic alkoxy  groups and aralkoxy groups having straight chain alkoxy, branched chain alkoxy, or cyclic  alkoxy portions and all of said groups may be unsubstituted or substituted with any functional  group compatible with a nitroxyl radical.  A process as defined in claim 27 wherein R6 and R7 are linear alkoxy groups of from 1 to  20 carbon atoms.  A process as defined in claim 27 wherein R6 and R7 are ethoxy.  A process as defined in claim 6 wherein R1, R2 and R3 are methyl, R4 is t-butyl and R5 is  -P(=O)R6R7 wherein R6 and R7 in the alkoxyamine and the nitroxyl are each independently  selected from straight chain alkyl, branched chain alkyl, or cyclic alkyl groups, aralkyl groups  having straight chain alkyl, branched chain alkyl, or cyclic alkyl portions, straight chain alkoxy,  branched chain alkoxy, or cyclic alkoxy groups and aralkoxy groups having straight chain  alkoxy, branched chain alkoxy, or cyclic alkoxy portions and all of said groups may be  unsubstituted or substituted with any functional group compatible with a nitroxyl radical.  A process as defined in claim 30 wherein R6 and R7 are linear alkoxy groups of from 1 to  20 carbon atoms.  A process as defined in claim 30 wherein R6 and R7 are ethoxy.  <seperator>EP-1371362-A1<id_sep>subgroupA61K31slash57subgroup subclassA61Ksubclass classA61class subgroupA61K31slash58subgroup groupA61P29slash00group subgroupA61K31slash56subgroup subclassA61Psubclass sectionAsection subgroupA61K31slash573subgroup subgroupA61K9slash127subgroup Composition for treatment of inflammatory disorders A pharmaceutical composition for parenteral administration, comprising liposomes composed of non-charged vesicle-forming lipids, optionally including not more than 5 mole percent of charged vesicle-forming lipids, the liposomes having a selected mean particle diameter in the size range between about 40 - 200 nm and containing a water soluble corticosteroid for the site-specific treatment of inflammatory disorders, is provided. The present invention relates to a pharmaceutical composition for parenteral and in particular intravenous administration, comprising liposomes composed of non-charged vesicle-forming lipids, optionally including not more than 5 mole percent of charged vesicle-forming lipids, the liposomes having a selected mean particle diameter in the size range between about 40 - 200 nm and containing a corticosteroid for the site-specific treatment of inflammatory disorders. Liposomes, which belong to the group of colloidal carrier particles, are small vesicles consisting of one or more concentric lipid bilayers enclosing an aqueous space. Because of their structural versatility in terms of size, surface charge, lipid composition, bilayer fluidity and because of their ability to encapsulate almost every drug, their importance as drug delivery systems was readily appreciated. However, on intravenous injecting of liposomes, these are recognised as foreign particles by the Mononuclear Phagocyte System (MPS) and rapidly cleared from the circulation to organs rich in phagocytic cells, like liver, spleen and bone marrow. Several possibilities to reduce this effect have been identified, such as decreasing the particle size of the liposomes and changing the surface charge of the liposomes. Another development relates to surface modification of the liposomes by the introduction of specific hydrophilic polymeric components on the liposomal surface, which groups reduce protein adsorption on the particle surface. Consequently such liposomes are protected against recognition by cells of the MPS and have a prolonged residence time in the general circulation. A well-known example of modification of the liposomal surface is the incorporation during the preparation of liposomal compositions of a lipid derivative of the hydrophilic polymer polyethylene glycol (PEG). Usually this polymer is terminus-modified with a hydrophobic moiety, which is the residue of a phosphatidyl ethanolamine derivative or a long-chain fatty acid. Polyethylene glycol per se is a rather stable polymer, which is a repellant of protein adhesion and which is not subject to enzymatic or hydrolytic degradation under physiological conditions. Good results with respect to extending plasma half life and diminishing accumulation into the organs rich in phagocytic cells have been obtained following intravenous administration of liposomes, having a PEG-grafted surface, to various animal species and also to human beings (Storm G., Belliot S.O., Daemen T. and Lasic D.D.: Surface modification of nanoparticles to oppose uptake by the mononuclear phagocyte system in Adv. Drug Delivery Rev. Meanwhile several disadvantages of the use of the polymer polyethylene glycol in long-circulating liposomes have been encountered. The accumulation of PEG-grafted liposomes in macrophages and the skin is of some concern due to non-biodegradability. Loss of the long-circulation property (fast clearance) on injecting PEG-liposomes for a second time has been observed (Dams E.T., Laverman P., Oijen W.J., Storm G., Scherphof G.L., Van der Meer J.W., Corstens F.H. and Boerman O.C.: Accelerated blood clearance and altered biodistribution of repeated injections of sterically stabilized liposomes in J. Pharmacol. Exp. Ther. Long-circulating small-sized liposomes, which contain non-charged or slightly negatively charged vesicle-forming lipids, such as PEG-liposomes, after intravenous administration can circulate for many hours in a volume not larger than the general circulation and therefore, in theory, are able to deliver relatively high portions of anti-inflammatory agents via extravasation at sites of enhanced vascular permeability common to inflamed regions. Such liposomes are of particular interest in the treatment of inflammatory diseases, e.g. rheumatoid arthritis, which is a chronic autoimmune disorder, causing joint inflammation and progressive cartilage destruction. Although several types of antirheumatic drugs are available for use, the treatment of severe, persistent synovitis and acute exacerbations may require the use of several intravenous injections containing high doses of glucocorticoids. Although systemic corticosteroids can suppress the symptoms of the disease, adverse effects limit their use. In addition to this, glucocorticoids suffer from unfavourable pharmacokinetic behaviour: short plasma half-life values and a large distribution volume require high and repeated administration in order to reach a therapeutically effective concentration of the drug at the desired site of action. Intra-articular injection of steroids into the affected joints is often used to increase the (local) efficacy of the glucocorticoids and diminish the systemic adverse effects, but this way of administration is less comfortable for the patients and not feasible when multiple small joints are affected. Also, a significant incidence of painless destruction of the joint may be associated with repeated intra-articular injections of glucocorticoids. According to EP-0662820-B preferred compounds for entrapment in PEG-containing liposomes are the steroidal anti-inflammatory compounds, such as prednisone, methylprednisolone, paramethazone, 11-fludrocortisol, triamcinolone, betamethasone and dexamethasone. The steroids listed belong to the group of steroids which are systemically administered. However, no examples of long-circulating liposomes containing these glucocorticoids were provided. The only example of a glucocorticoid-containing PEG-liposome, viz. no. 12, related to the preparation of beclomethasone dipropionate-containing PEG-liposomes. On preparing dexamethasone-containing PEG-liposomes according to the disclosure in EP-0662820 and on intravenous administration of the same in an in vivo experimental arthritis model, the present inventors noted that the beneficial effects, as taught in EP-0662820, could not be observed at all. A pharmaceutical composition for parenteral administration, the composition comprising liposomes composed of non-charged vesicle-forming lipids, optionally including not more than 5 mol% of charged vesicle-forming lipids, which liposomes have a selected mean particle diameter in the size range between about 40 - 200 nm and contain a corticosteroid for the site-specific treatment of inflammatory disorders, characterised in that the corticosteroid is present in a water soluble form. Composition according to claim 1, characterised in that the corticosteroid is selected from the group consisting of systemically administered corticosteroids. Composition according to claim 2, characterised in that the systemically administered corticosteroids are selected from the group consisting of prednisolone, dexamethasone and methylprednisolone. Composition according to claim 1, characterised in that the corticosteroid is selected from the group of topically applied corticosteroids. Composition according to claim 4, characterised in that the topically applied corticosteroids are selected from the group consisting of budesonide, flunisolide and fluticasone propionate. <seperator>EP-1528663-A2<id_sep>sectionHsection groupH02M1slash00group classH02class subgroupH02M1slash42subgroup subclassH02Msubclass Power factor control device A power factor correction device comprising a rectifier (10) operable to receive an AC input voltage (100) and output a rectified voltage (110), and a first analog module (20) connected to the rectifier (10) so as to receive the rectified voltage (110) and generate a corresponding first output signal (120). The device (1) also comprises a second analog module (30) connected in parallel to the first module (20) and connected to the rectifier (10) so as to receive the rectified voltage (110) and generate a corresponding second output signal (130); the output signals (120, 130) are duly combined and transmitted to a load (40) in the form of a main signal (140) that defines a main current (I) and main voltage (V) of the load (40) itself. A digital controller (50) receives the rectified voltage (110) and the main signal (140) and generates, accordingly, a command signal (150) to be transmitted to the modules (20, 30) in order to regulate the input current (I The present invention relates to a device for controlling the power factor. As is well known, the "power factor" in an electric load is defined as the ratio between the actual power absorbed by the load itself and the apparent power applied to it. The power factor is strictly related to the phase displacement between the current drawn by the load and the voltage applied to the latter by the power source: if the drawn current is completely in phase with and has the same waveform as the applied voltage, the power factor will be equal to 1; if, on the other hand, voltage and current are out of phase and/or have different waveforms, the power factor will be less than 1. A power factor with a value of 1 (or close to 1) is desirable both from an energy standpoint (energy efficiency is maximised) and for reasons tied to distortion (the voltage waveform will not be substantially distorted by the load). In many applications it is actually not possible to achieve a power factor equal to 1; in particular, in applications such as inverters, motor control or converters for low voltage that operate from a DC bus, the power factor may be much less than 1. The above-mentioned circuits are typically provided with a bridge rectifier and an electrolytic capacitor connected to the bus and serving to convert the AC input voltage into an adequately filtered DC voltage. In order to improve the power factor (i.e., to increase it so as to bring it as close as possible to a value of 1), correction circuits are installed between the power supply network and the load. These circuits enable a sufficiently high power factor to be obtained (e.g. 0.8-0.9). Among the power factor correction circuits available today there are systems consisting of a digital controller (typically a DSP) associated with analog power modules. The digital controller measures all the necessary parameters relating to the supply voltage/current and output voltage/current and generates appropriate command signals that are transmitted to the power modules, so that the latter can deliver power to the load while maintaining a high power factor. Furthermore, the digital controller transmits commands to all modules at the same frequency and controls their synchronisation. A drawback of this type of circuit emerges if one considers the costs of setting it up (DSPs are notoriously expensive devices) and the need to modify the digital control whenever it is necessary to adjust maximum output power by changing the number of modules. At the present state of the art, an alternative to the circuits briefly described above may be a completely analog-type circuit. The operating limits of this second type of correction circuit become evident considering that for any change that needs to be made, the hardware making up the circuit itself must be adapted. Moreover, it is very difficult to implement topologies with several parallel power modules. In other words, as the device is of a completely analog type, it is not possible to substantially modify any function without operating directly upon the electronic circuitry, replacing some components or setting them in a particular manner. A power factor correction device characterised in that it comprises:  A device as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that said first module (20) comprises:  A device as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that said second module (30) comprises:  A device as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that it further comprises a synchronism block (60) for generating at least a first synchronism output signal (160) destined for said first module (20) and a second synchronism output signal (170) destined for said second module (30), so as to selectively regulate the operation of said first and second analog modules (20, 30), and impose on said second output signal (130) a phase lag of prefixed entity in relation to said first output signal (120). A device as claimed in claim 4, characterised in that said second synchronism signal (170) acts upon said second divider (34) in order to vary said second threshold value (S2) and define a reciprocal phase displacement of said first and second output signals (120, 130). A device as claimed in claim 5, characterised in that said synchronism block (60) comprises:  A device as claimed in claim 6, characterised in that said synchronism block (60) comprises said first circuit branch (21), said first synchronism signal (160) being defined by the voltage at the second end (22b) of said first resistor (22). A device as claimed in claim 6, characterised in that said auxiliary divider (61) is defined by said first divider (24), the latter being provided with:  A device as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that it further comprises a plurality of analog modules (200) connected in parallel, each of said modules being connected to said rectifier (10) in order to receive said rectified voltage (110) as input and generate a corresponding output signal (201), said output signals (201) being combined to obtain said main signal (140), each of said output signals (201) being preferably out of phase with said first output signal (120) by an amount that is inversely proportional to the number of said modules (200), and is in particular equal to: (i/N)*360° wherein "N" is the number of analog modules (200) and "i" is a progressive integer specifically identifying each of said analog modules (200) in sequence. A device as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that said digital controller (50) comprises:  A device as claimed in claim 10, characterised in that said computing means (53) comprise:  A device as claimed in claim 11, characterised in that it further comprises an integrator block (70) connected to said computing means (53) so as to receive said square wave signal (340) and generate and output said command signal (150). A device as claimed in claim 11, characterised in that said computing means (53) further comprise a main filter (430) that receives as input said second digital signal (310) and generates a third digital output signal (350) representing a reciprocal of the square of an average value of said rectified voltage (110), destined for said multiplier block (410), said resulting signal (330) deriving from the product of said second digital signal (310), error signal (320) and third digital signal (350). A device as claimed in claim 11, characterised in that said comparator block (400) comprises:  A device as claimed in claim 14, characterised in that said computing means (53) further comprise a first control circuit (440) provided with:  A device as claimed in claim 14, characterised in that said computing means (53) further comprise a second control circuit (450) provided with:  A device as claimed in claim 10, characterised in that it further comprises a third control circuit (80) provided with:  A device as claimed in claim 17, characterised in that said computing means (53) further comprise:  <seperator>EP-1504925-A1<id_sep>groupB43K5slash00group classC09class sectionBsection groupB43K8slash00group subgroupC09D11slash16subgroup subgroupB43K5slash12subgroup groupB43K27slash00group subgroupB43K7slash08subgroup subgroupB43K8slash04subgroup sectionCsection subgroupB43K5slash18subgroup subclassB43Ksubclass classB43class subgroupB43K7slash06subgroup subgroupB43K7slash10subgroup subgroupB43K27slash08subgroup groupB43K7slash00group subclassC09Dsubclass WRITING UTENSIL In a writing instrument in which an ink for a writing instrument such as a water-based ink and an oil-based ink impregnated into an ink occlusion body in a barrel is fed to a pen tip in a writing part, in order to provide a writing instrument in which a sign of exhausting the ink can readily and surely be detected, the above writing instrument is provided with a structure in which the ink impregnated into the ink occlusion body in the barrel is fed to the pen tip in the writing part, wherein the ink impregnated into the ink occlusion body described above is fed to the pen tip via an ink guiding feed having visibility, and a sign of exhausting the ink fed from the ink occlusion body is detected by visually observing the ink guiding feed described above via a visible part formed in the barrel.  The present invention relates to a writing instrument in which an ink for a writing instrument such as a water-based ink and an oil-based ink impregnated into an ink occlusion body in a barrel is fed to a pen tip in a writing part, more specifically to a writing instrument which can readily detect a sign of exhausting an ink in a writing instrument having the above structure. A free ink type writing instrument having a collector structure in which a liquid ink is stored directly in a barrel, a writing instrument having a structure in which an ink is stored in an ink reservoir of a cartridge type and a ballpoint pen of a type in which an ink for a ballpoint pen is filled in a transparent refill have so far been known as a writing instrument in which a remaining amount of an ink and a sign of exhausting an ink can be detected. On the other hand, in a writing instrument in which a pen tip in a writing part is fed with an ink for a writing instrument such as a water-based ink and an oil-based ink impregnated into an ink occlusion body in a barrel, a so-called writing instrument of a sliver type, it is the existing situation that writing instruments equipped a mechanism in which a sign of exhausting an ink can be detected have not so far been available. Accordingly, in the writing instruments having the above structures, it is not before an ink is used until starving is caused during writing that the ink is found to be exhausted, and then the writing instrument is disposed or reused with supplementing the ink. However, starving is caused as well due to drying of the pen tip, and therefore if starving is caused due to drying of the pen tip though the ink impregnated into the ink occlusion body sufficiently remains, it is not a substantial sign of exhausting the ink, and a problem on use is involved therein. On the other hand, disclosed in Japanese Patent Application Laid-Open No. 270585/1994 is a writing instrument in which a sliver working as an ink occlusion body is mounted in a transparent barrel to feed a pen tip in a writing part with an ink impregnated in the above sliver and in which the inside of the writing instrument can be visually observed from the sliver up to the pen tip. However, in a writing instrument having the above structure, when an amount of an ink occluded in a sliver is decreased, an remaining amount of the ink can be observed to some extent by the degree in the color of the ink occluded in the sliver, but a sign of exhausting the ink can not surely be detected. Accordingly, a problem on use is involved as well in the above writing instrument. In light of the problems of the conventional techniques and the existing situation each described above, the present invention intends to solve them, and an object of the present invention is to provide a writing instrument in which a pen tip in a writing part is fed with an ink for a writing instrument such as a water-based ink or an oil-based ink impregnated into an ink occlusion body in a barrel, wherein a sign of exhausting the ink can readily and surely be detected, and another object thereof is to provide a writing instrument in which a consumption rate of the ink impregnated into an ink occlusion body is further improved. A writing instrument in which an ink impregnated into an ink occlusion body in a barrel is fed to a pen tip in a writing part, wherein the ink impregnated into the ink occlusion body described above is fed to the pen tip via an ink guiding feed having visibility, and a sign of exhausting the ink fed from the ink occlusion body is detected by visually observing the ink guiding feed described above via a visible part formed in the barrel. A writing instrument of a twin type in which an ink impregnated into an ink occlusion body in a barrel is fed to respective pen tips in writing parts disposed at both sides of the barrel, wherein the ink fed to either of the pen tips is fed to the pen tip via an ink guiding feed having visibility, and a sign of exhausting the ink fed from the ink occlusion body is detected by visually observing the ink guiding feed described above via a visible part formed in the barrel. The writing instrument as described in claim 1 or 2, wherein the ink impregnated into the ink occlusion body is fed to the ink guiding feed having visibility via an inter-feeder. The writing instrument as described in claim 3, wherein the inter-feeder is brought into contact with the inside of the ink occlusion body in a length of 5 % or more based on an overall length of the ink occlusion body. The writing instrument as described in claim 3 or 4, wherein the inter-feeder has a cross-sectional area of 1 to 90 % based on a cross-sectional area of the ink occlusion body. The writing instrument as described in any of claims 3 to 5, wherein the inter-feeder has larger capillary force than that of the ink occlusion body. The writing instrument as described in any of claims 3 to 6, wherein the inter-feeder has a cross-section structure comprising an inner layer and an outer layer, and the outer layer has larger capillary force than that of the inner layer. The writing instrument as described in any of claims 3 to 7, wherein the ink fed to the ink guiding feed having visibility via the inter-feeder is fed to the pen tip further via a pen tip feeder. The writing instrument as described in any of claims 3 to 8, wherein the inter-feeder comprises any one of a fiber bundle feed, porous sintered body of resin particles and a sliver feed, and a passage cross-sectional area for an ink flowing through the ink guiding feed can substantially be controlled by providing the inter-feeder with continuous passages while maintaining an apparent cross-sectional area of the ink guiding feed. The writing instrument as described in any of claims 1 to 9, wherein a material of a face of the ink guiding feed having visibility which is brought into contact with the ink or a material of the ink guiding feed itself has a smaller surface tension than that of the ink. The writing instrument as described in any of claims 1 to 10, wherein the occlusion body has a distribution in capillary force such that it is increased toward a pen tip side. The writing instrument as described in any of claims 1 to 11, wherein an inner diameter of the barrel is narrower toward the pen tip side. The writing instrument as described in any of claims 1 to 12, wherein plural ribs are formed in an axial direction on an inner wall of the pen tip side of the barrel. The writing instrument as described in any of claims 1 to 13, wherein a plurality of the ink guiding feeds having visibility is provided. The writing instrument as described in any of claims 1 to 14, wherein the ink impregnated into the ink occlusion body is fed to the pen tip through an ink-feeder in addition to the ink guiding feed having visibility. The writing instrument as described in any of claims 1 to 15, wherein a passage cross-sectional area for the ink flowing through the ink guiding feed and flow resistance of the ink can substantially be controlled by filling the ink guiding feed having visibility with a fiber bundle feed or a porous sintered body of resin particles which has a smaller surface tension than that of the ink and has a color which is different from that of the ink while maintaining an apparent cross-sectional area of the ink guiding feed. The writing instrument as described in any of claims 1 to 16, wherein the visible part in the barrel has a length of 1 mm or more and not longer than an overall length of the writing instrument. The writing instrument as described in any of claims 1 to 17, wherein the ink guiding feed has an ink passage cross-sectional area of 8 × 10-2 to 80 mm2. The writing instrument as described in any of claims 1 to 18, wherein the ink has a surface tension of 18 mN/ or more at 25°C. The writing instrument as described in any of claims 1 to 19, wherein the ink has a viscosity of 500 mPa·s or less at 25°C. <seperator>EP-1524429-A1<id_sep>subclassF02Bsubclass subclassF02Msubclass subgroupF02M61slash14subgroup subgroupF02M61slash18subgroup sectionFsection classF02class subgroupF02M69slash04subgroup subgroupF02M61slash16subgroup subgroupF02B23slash10subgroup groupF02M61slash00group groupF02B3slash00group subgroupF02B3slash02subgroup Fuel injection method of internal combustion engine, fuel injection valve of the same, and internal combustion engine The present invention relates to a fuel injection method of an internal combustion engine having higher combustion stability which can direct a part of concentrated fuel spray (203) toward an ignition plug (403) according to a fuel injection atmosphere, a fuel injection valve (401) thereof, and an internal combustion engine. The present invention provides a fuel injection method of an internal combustion engine for injecting fuel so as to generate a part of high spray concentration and a part of low spray concentration on the cross section of spray (203) by giving swirling force to fuel from an injection hole (101) at the front end of a fuel injection valve (401), comprising the step of setting a reference indicating the position of a axis of the fuel injection valve (401) indicating the injection direction of the part of high spray concentration in the rotational direction when fuel is injected into an atmosphere under the atmospheric pressure.  The present invention relates to a fuel injection method of a new internal combustion engine, a fuel injection valve thereof, and an internal combustion engine. Patent Document 1 indicates a manufacturing method of a fuel injection valve, as a fuel injection valve used for a gasoline engine of a direct injection type, for adjusting a spray shape having a part of concentrated spray and a part of rarefied spray on the cross section of spray to a desired shape by providing a level difference on the opening face of the injection hole. Patent Document 1: Japanese Patent Application 2002-195133 Patent Document 1 discloses that in spray injected from the fuel injection valve, a part of concentrated fuel spray and a part of rarefied fuel spray are formed and even when the pressure in the cylinder is high, fuel spray is stably supplied to the ignition plug side. However, the inventors find that when a part of concentrated fuel spray and a part of rarefied fuel spray are provided in spray of the fuel injection valve for rotating fuel to make it small in size, fuel flows out during rotation, thus even in the atmosphere wherein fuel is injected, a rotating gas current is generated, so that a phenomenon occurs that depending on the density of the atmosphere, the part of concentrated fuel spray rotates in the rotational direction of the axis of the fuel injection valve. Therefore, when rotating fuel and injecting it from the injection valve, the fuel injection valve is attached to an internal combustion engine of a direct injection type and when the fuel injection valve is used under the condition that the fuel injection time is in the compression stroke, the combustion chamber pressure is higher than the atmospheric pressure, so that under the condition that a part of concentrated fuel spray is generated at the position when it rotates more than a case that fuel is injected into the atmosphere of air pressure, the fuel injection valve is used. Therefore, the inventors find that even if the fuel injection valve is attached to the internal combustion engine so that the part of concentrated fuel spray in the atmosphere of air pressure moves toward the ignition plug, when fuel is injected in the compression stroke, the part of concentrated fuel spray is generated at a position shifted from the ignition plug in the combustion rotational direction and the fuel injection valve is not always used at a position of most suitable combustion stability. An object of the present invention is to provide a fuel injection method of an internal combustion engine of higher combustion stability, a fuel injection valve thereof, and an internal combustion engine capable of moving the part of concentrated fuel spray toward the ignition plug depending on the injection atmosphere. The present invention provides a fuel injection method for an internal combustion engine loading a fuel injection valve for injecting fuel from an injection hole so that a part of high spray concentration and a part of low spray concentration are generated by giving swirl force to the fuel on the upstream side of the injection hole for injecting the fuel. The fuel injection valve may be mounted so that the position where the fuel is rotated in the rotational direction is moved toward the ignition plug from the part of high spray concentration generated by the injection under the atmospheric pressure. A fuel injection method of an internal. combustion engine for injecting fuel so as to generate a part of high spray concentration and a part of low spray concentration on a cross section of spray by giving swirling force to said fuel from an injection hole (101) at a front end of a fuel injection valve (401), comprising the step of setting a reference indicating a position of an axis of said fuel injection valve (401) indicating an injection direction of said part of high spray concentration in a rotational direction when said fuel is injected into an atmosphere under atmospheric pressure. A fuel injection method of an internal combustion engine according to Claim 1, wherein said reference of said position in said rotational direction is set so that said part of high spray concentration under pressure higher than said atmospheric pressure is directed toward said ignition plug (403). A fuel injection method of an internal combustion engine according to Claim 1 or 2, wherein said reference indicating said position in said rotational direction is set at a position when said injection direction of said part of high spray concentration under said atmospheric pressure is rotated in an opposite direction of said rotation direction of said axis of said fuel injection valve (401) instead of a position of said ignition plug (403). A fuel injection method of an internal combustion engine according to any of Claims 1 to 3, wherein a rotation amount of said axis of said fuel injection valve (401) indicating said injection direction in which said part of high spray concentration under pressure higher than said atmospheric pressure moves toward said ignition plug (403), on the basis of at least one operation condition relating to a engine speed of said internal combustion engine, load, exhaust gas recirculation amount, and fuel injection time, is set with reference to said rotation amount indicating said injection direction of said part of high spray concentration under said atmospheric pressure. A fuel injection method of an internal combustion engine according to any of Claims 1 to 4, wherein said spray (203) under said atmospheric pressure has a cross section in a hollow conical shape. A fuel injection method of an internal combustion engine according to any of Claims 1 to 5, wherein said spray (203) under said atmospheric pressure has a cross section in a hollow conical shape eccentric to a central axis of said injection hole (101). A fuel injection valve of an internal combustion engine comprising a fuel injection valve (401) having an injection hole (101) for injecting fuel and swirling force giving means (103) for giving swirling force to said fuel for injecting said fuel from said injection hole (101) so as to generate a part of high spray concentration and a part of low spray concentration under atmospheric pressure, wherein said fuel injection valve (401) has positioning means indicating a position of a axis of said fuel injection valve (401) attached to said internal combustion engine in a rotational direction and said positioning means, so as to position said part of high spray concentration in an injection direction under said atmospheric pressure, is a set position with reference to said position of said part of high spray concentration under said atmospheric pressure in said rotational direction of said axis of said fuel injection valve in said injection direction. A fuel injection valve of an internal combustion engine according to Claim 7, wherein said injection direction of said part of high spray concentration under said atmospheric pressure is set at a position when said injection direction rotates in an opposite direction of said rotational direction of said axis of said fuel injection valve (401) instead of a position of said ignition plug (403), thus said reference of said position in said rotational direction is set so that said part of high spray concentration under pressure higher than said atmospheric pressure is directed toward said ignition plug (403). A fuel injection valve of an internal combustion engine according to Claim 7 or 8, wherein said rotation amount of said axis of said fuel injection valve (401) indicating said injection direction in which said part of high spray concentration under pressure higher than said atmospheric pressure moves toward said ignition plug (403), on the basis of at least one operation condition relating to a engine speed of said internal combustion engine, load, exhaust gas recirculation amount, and fuel injection time, is set with reference to said rotation amount indicating said injection direction of said part of high spray concentration under said atmospheric pressure. A fuel injection valve of an internal combustion engine according to any of Claims 7 to 9, wherein said positioning means is a mark (701) or a pin for said positioning. A fuel injection valve of an internal combustion engine according to Claim 10, wherein said pin changes a length of the same, thus said rotation amount is set. An internal combustion engine including a fuel injection valve (401) having an injection hole (101) for injecting fuel and swirling force giving means (103) for giving swirling force to said fuel and loading a fuel injection valve (401) for injecting said fuel from said injection hole (101) so as to generate a part of high spray concentration and a part of low spray concentration under atmospheric pressure, wherein said fuel injection valve (401) and said internal combustion engine respectively have positioning means indicating a mounting position and said positioning means between said fuel injection valve (401) and said internal combustion engine is set as a reference indicating a position of said axis of said fuel injection valve (401) indicating said injection direction of said part of high spray concentration under said atmospheric pressure in said rotational direction. An internal combustion engine according to Claim 12, wherein said reference indicating said position of said axis of said fuel injection valve (401) indicating said injection direction of said part of high spray concentration under said atmospheric pressure in said rotational direction is set so that said injection direction of said part of high spray concentration under said atmospheric pressure is directed toward a position when said injection direction is rotated in an opposite direction of said rotation direction of said axis of said fuel injection valve (401) instead of a position of said ignition plug (403). An internal combustion engine according to Claim 12 or 13, wherein said rotation amount of said axis of said fuel injection valve (401) indicating said injection direction in which said part of high spray concentration under pressure higher than said atmospheric pressure moves toward said ignition plug (403), on the basis of at least one operation condition relating to a engine speed of said internal combustion engine, load, exhaust gas recirculation amount, and fuel injection time, is set with reference to said rotation amount indicating said injection direction of said part of high spray concentration under said atmospheric pressure. <seperator>EP-1637699-A2<id_sep>subgroupF01D5slash18subgroup subclassF01Dsubclass sectionFsection classF01class Offset coriolis turbulator blade A turbine rotor blade (10) includes an airfoil (12) having pressure and suction sidewalls (26,28) extending longitudinally in span from root (30) to tip (32). The sidewalls (26,28) are spaced apart between leading and trailing edges (34,36) and joined together by longitudinal partitions (38) defining flow channels (1-8) therein. Rows of first and second slant turbulators (40-46) extend from one of the sidewalls in one of the channels and are offset longitudinally. The first and second turbulators (40-46) overlap chordally to eliminate an axial gap therebetween while maintaining a radial gap for tripping cooling air channeled along the span of the channel.  The present invention relates generally to gas turbine engines, and, more specifically, to turbine rotor blades therein. A typical gas turbine engine includes several rows or stages of turbine rotor blades which extract energy from hot combustion gases for rotating the corresponding turbine disks from which they extend. A high pressure turbine powers an upstream compressor, and a low pressure turbine typically powers an upstream fan in an aircraft turbofan engine application. Air is pressurized in the compressor and mixed with fuel in a combustor for generating the hot combustion gases which flow through the turbine stages. A portion of the pressurized air is bled from the compressor for cooling the turbine blades for ensuring long life thereof. More specifically, turbine blades have hollow airfoils with various cooling circuits therein for accommodating the different heat loads over the concave pressure and convex suction sides thereof which extend between opposite leading and trailing edges. The cooling air is delivered to the supporting dovetail of the blade and channeled radially outwardly through the dovetail and platform through the root of the airfoil and radially outwardly to its outer tip. The leading edge of the airfoil first receives the hot combustion gases in the turbine flowpath, and typically requires a dedicated cooling circuit therefor. The trailing edge of the airfoil is relatively thin and typically includes a dedicated cooling circuit therefor. And, the midchord region of the airfoil typically includes multiple cooling legs or channels specifically configured for cooling this region of the airfoil. The prior art is crowded with various cooling circuits and cooling features for cooling turbine rotor blades from root to tip and between the leading and trailing edges. The internal cooling circuits may be single radial flow channels typically along the leading and trailing edges, with multiple flow channels in between typically in the form of multi-pass serpentine flow channels. Short turbulator ribs are typically found in the various internal flow channels of the airfoil for tripping the cooling air coolant to increase its heat transfer coefficient for improving cooling efficiency. The turbulators are typically in the form of straight ribs extending horizontally or along the chord axis of the airfoil, or they may be inclined relative thereto. As the air flows radially outwardly and radially inwardly through the various flow channels inside the turbine airfoil heat is extracted from the metal sidewalls thereof for providing local cooling, with the cooling air then being discharged through various apertures throughout the airfoil. For example, the sidewalls of the airfoil typically include inclined film cooling holes which discharge the spent cooling air in corresponding films for providing a thermally insulating cooling air blanket over the external surface of the pressure and suction sidewalls as required. The leading edge may have specialized showerhead holes, and the trailing edge may have various forms of trailing edge discharge holes. And, the tip of the airfoil typically includes additional outlet holes in the floor of the tip cavity thereof for additionally discharging the air from the internal cooling circuits. A turbine rotor blade (10) comprising:  A blade according to claim 1 wherein said first and second turbulators (40,42) alternate from and terminate short of opposite partitions (38) along said airfoil span. A blade according to claim 2 wherein said first turbulators (40) are substantially parallel with said second turbulators (42). A blade according to claim 2 wherein said first turbulators (44) are oblique to said second turbulators (46). A blade according to claim 2 wherein:  A blade according to claim 5 wherein said first and second turbulators (40,42) are substantially parallel to each other, and slant inwardly toward said root (30) and said trailing edge (36). A blade according to claim 5 wherein said first and second turbulators (44,46) are oblique to each other and higher in span at said channel midplane than at said partitions (38). A blade according to claim 2 wherein said two rows of first and second turbulators (40,42) are disposed on both of said sidewalls (26,28) extending into said one channel (7). A blade according to claim 2 wherein said two rows of first and second turbulators (40,42) are disposed solely on said pressure sidewall (26) extending into said one channel (8), and said suction sidewall (28) is devoid of turbulators in said one channel. A blade according to claim 2 wherein said two rows of first and second turbulators (40-46) are disposed in fewer than all of said flow channels. <seperator>EP-1304695-A2<id_sep>classH04class sectionHsection subgroupH04N5slash765subgroup subgroupH04N7slash26subgroup sectionGsection subclassH04Nsubclass subgroupH04N5slash44subgroup subgroupH04N5slash775subgroup subgroupH04N7slash24subgroup subclassG11Bsubclass subgroupH04L29slash04subgroup subgroupG11B20slash10subgroup subclassH04Lsubclass classG11class Multi-format media decoder and method of using same as an interface with a digital network A multi-format decoder board (102) interfaces with a digital data network (123), preferably a fibre optic digital data network. Because data can be transmitted over the data network (123) in a wide variety of formats, the decoder board (102) of the present invention is able to decode data streams of audiovisual programming in a variety of formats so that the data can then be output by the board (102) to various output devices including speakers, headphones (122), video monitors (98) and other display devices (99). The data network (123) is preferably on-board a vehicle in which the use of multiple playback devices (90,...,97) for various audiovisual data formats would be limited by space and power constraints.  FIELD OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to the use of audio and audiovisual data signals, particularly in a vehicle. More particularly, the present invention relates to decoding audio and audiovisual digital data streams from a digital network, particularly a fiber optic network, for use by a variety of output devices, such as speakers, headphones, video monitors and other display devices. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION With the growth of the Internet, cable television, video-on-demand services, satellite radio and the like, the demand for entertainment and informational media is constantly increasing. Consumers want a wide variety of audio and audiovisual programming to select from and want the programming they desire to be available whenever and wherever convenient. As used herein and in the appended claims, the term audiovisual programming is used to broadly encompass audio programming, such as music or voice recordings or transmissions; video programming, such as still photographs or images; and audiovisual programming, moving pictures with an associated soundtrack, such as movies, television shows, etc. To respond to these demands, many formats for storing and transmitting audio and audiovisual programming have been developed. For example, a DVD (Digital Versatile or Video Disk), a compact-sized disk, can contain an entire movie and often much additional information and programming. Text and audiovisual information equivalent to a small library can be stored on a CD ROM (Compact Disk--Read Only Memory). Hundreds of different channels can be carried in the composite signal of a cable television system. High quality sound recordings can be stored as MP3 files on a computer hard-drive or in the electronic memory of a portable MP3 player that can be taken anywhere. Along with the demand that audio and audiovisual programming be widely and readily available, consumers also demand that such programming be of as high a quality as possible. In the digital realm, this translates into the need to store or transmit ever increasing quantities of data to provide the additional programming quality desired. Consequently, most, if not all, of the popular means of storing or transmitting audiovisual programming use some form of data compression to maximize the data either stored in the available memory space or sent via the available bandwidth. There are various methods and standards of encoding and, in some cases, compressing digital data for storage or transmission. In addition to the DVD format mentioned above, these include, but are not limited to, the audio CD format and MP3 format for audio data; and the MPEG-1 (Motion Pictures Expert Group), MPEG-2, MPEG-4, Motion JPEG, and Video CD (VCD) formats for audiovisual data. Obviously, when the data is to be used, it must be decoded before it can be used by an output device, such as a television or display device. With all these various formats for transmitting and storing audiovisual programming, it becomes very difficult to provide a system that can make use of multiple formats for audiovisual programming. Typically, this is not a problem as the user simply purchases a separate dedicated device to handle each format of audiovisual media or transmission desired. A multi-format decoder board for decoding audiovisual data streams in a plurality of encoding formats for use by one or more audiovisual output devices, said decoder board comprising:  A multi-media system in a vehicle comprising:  A multi-format decoder board for decoding audiovisual data streams in a plurality of encoding formats for use by one or more audiovisual output devices, said decoder board comprising:  A decoder board or system as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein said interface stage is an optical interface stage for interfacing said decoder board with a fibre optic network. A decoder board or system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein said connections for one or more audiovisual output devices comprise a headphone jack. A decoder board or system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein said connections for one or more audiovisual output devices comprise a connection for a display device. A decoder board or system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, further comprising menu images controlled by the microcontroller and displayed on the audiovisual output device, and a touch-screen connected to said decoder board, said touch-screen used to select menu items and provide user input to said microcontroller which interprets the user input. A decoder board or system as claimed in claim 7, wherein the decoder outputs a decoded video signal to said audiovisual output device. A decoder board or system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein said decoder outputs a decoded audio signal to said interface stage for transmission over said digital network. A decoder board or system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein said decoder decodes MPEG-1, MPEG-2, MPEG-4, Motion JPEG, and VCD and provides for required content protection. A decoder board or system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein said decoder decodes a data streams output by any of an audio CD player, a DVD player, a VCD player or a wireless receiver. A decoder board or system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein said decoder decodes an MP3 data stream. A system as claimed in claim 2, wherein said digital data network is a fibre optic network and said interface stage is an optical interface stage for interfacing said decoder board with said fibre optic network. A system as claimed in claim 2 or 13, wherein said at least one audiovisual output device comprises a set of headphones and said connections for one or more audiovisual output devices comprise a headphone jack. A system as claimed in claim 2 or 13, wherein said at least one audiovisual output device comprises a display device and said connections for one or more audiovisual output devices comprise a connection for said display device. A system as claimed in any one of claims 2 and 13 to 15, wherein the storage, playback or receiver device is connected to the network and comprises any one or more of a hard drive, an electronic memory unit; a floppy disk drive; an analog antenna and tuner; a satellite antenna; a DVD player; an audio player; and a VCD or CD-ROM drive. A decoder board or system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, further comprising user input means connected to said board for providing user input to said controller means. A method of handling a digital data stream carrying data encoded in a plurality of different encoding formats, said method comprising processing said digital data stream through a decoder board that comprises a multi-format decoder for decoding at least two different encoding formats for audiovisual data and output a resulting decoded audiovisual signal to one or more audiovisual output devices. A method as claimed in claim 18, further comprising interfacing said decoder board to a digital data network with an interface stage, said digital data stream coming to said decoder board via said digital data network. A method as claimed in claim 19, wherein said digital data stream is transmitted over said digital data network optically. A method as claimed in any one of claims 18 to 20, further comprising outputting a decoded audio signal to a pair of headphones. A method as claimed in any one of claims 18 to 21, further comprising outputting a decoded audiovisual signal to a display device. A method as claimed in any one of claims 18 to 22, further comprising controlling said decoder board with a display device connected to said board, said display device displaying a user interface. A method as claimed in any one of claim 18 to 23, further comprising displaying a decoded video signal from said decoder with said display device. <seperator>EP-1254651-A1<id_sep>subgroupA61K8slash30subgroup subclassA61Ksubclass subgroupA61Q5slash02subgroup groupA61Q19slash00group subgroupA61Q19slash10subgroup subgroupA61K8slash68subgroup subgroupC11D3slash50subgroup subgroupA61K8slash36subgroup subgroupA61Q5slash12subgroup subgroupA61K8slash02subgroup subgroupC11D3slash26subgroup classA61class subclassA61Qsubclass subgroupA61Q5slash08subgroup subgroupA61K8slash18subgroup subclassC11Bsubclass classC11class groupA61K8slash00group subgroupC11D3slash32subgroup groupA61Q5slash00group groupA61Q13slash00group subgroupC11D7slash22subgroup subclassC11Dsubclass subgroupA61K8slash42subgroup subgroupA61K8slash63subgroup sectionCsection subgroupC11D7slash32subgroup sectionAsection groupC11B9slash00group Use of fragrance retaining composition There is provided a fragrance-retaining composition comprising: an ingredient (A) composed of 2-acylaminoalkan-1,3-diols and/or optically active forms thereof represented by the formula I:  The present invention relates to a fragrance and cosmetic composition having a reinforced capacity for retaining the fragrances or perfumes used in a variety of cosmetics and fragrance products. The invention also concerns a fragrance and cosmetic product containing such a composition. Fragrances and cosmetics are commonly used in: hair care products such as shampoo, rinse, conditioners and the like; body cleaners such as shower gel (or body shampoo) or liquid soap, cleansers for face washing and the like; skin care products such as creams, milky lotions, beauty washes and the like; fabric care products such as clothing detergents, clothing softeners and the like. When fragrances are added to such products, a proper measure is normally taken to retain these fragrances after their use. Such a measure includes, for instance: However, in measure (a), even if the enduring fragrances or retaining agents are used, the fragrances are dissolved into water by action of surfactants and washed away. Desired fragrances can thus be hardly retained in hairs, on washed articles or on human skin. In measure (b), the fragrances contained in toilet articles or cosmetics become concentrated and intensified during use. Accordingly, the fragrances may be felt far different or removed from natural context. Moreover, such a measure is very costly. In method (c), the fragrances lose their essence during use. Besides the above generally known technologies, there have been reported other specific methods, such as: However, in method (d), use is limited to alcohol products such as eau de cologne. A product type such as used with washing water is not suitable for this method, since the product cannot retain a sufficient amount of scent. Further, as triglycerides are added in large amount to such a product, it becomes sticky. In method (e), amido-carboxylic acid has to be added in an amount equal to, or above, the amount of fragrance or perfume used. This creates economical handicap. In method (f), the added sulfonic acid, when placed in acidic condition, may generate a typical sulfide odour. Further, the amount of sulfonic acid to be added is equal to, or above, that of fragrance or perfume used. This renders the method more expensive. In method (g), the product tends to become viscous and to form a lard odour. Further, the lard and surfactant have to be added in an amount two or three times that of fragrance or perfume used. This renders the method economically less attractive. In method (h), the endurance-imparting compound has also to be added in an amount equal to or higher than that of fragrance or perfume used. This renders the method more expensive. In all the above methods, a large amount of effective compounds, relative to the quantity of fragrances, are required in order to retain efficiently the fragrances in hairs or on washed articles and human skin. As can be observed from the foregoing, when fragrance products are commercially prepared, a certain amount of adjuvant compounds are added to the products. However, when the amount of adjuvant is small, no measure or method disclosed up to now can efficiently improve the fragrance effects, to such a level that scents are retained even after water washing or an unpleasant remnant odour is masked from washed material. A fragrance-retaining composition comprising a sphingolipid-based composition (A), and an ingredient (B) comprising at least one compound chosen from the group consisting of sterol-based compounds. A fragrance-retaining composition according to claim 1, wherein said sphingolipid-based composition (A) comprises:  A fragrance-retaining composition according to claim 1 or 2, wherein said fragrance-retaining composition further comprises at least one ingredient (C) selected from the group consisting of cholesterol esters and higher fatty acids. A fragrance-retaining composition according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein said first ceramide ingredient (A1) comprises a (2S,3R)-2-acylaminoalkan-1,3-diol represented by the formula (IV):  in which R1 and R2 are as defined for the formula (I). A fragrance-retaining composition according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein said second ceramide ingredient (A2) comprises a (2S,3R)-2-acylaminoalkan-1,3-diol represented by the formula (V): in which R1 and R3 are as defined for the formula (II). A fragrance-retaining composition according to claim 1, wherein said sphingolipid-based composition (A) comprises:  A fragrance-retaining composition according to any one of claims 1 to 6, having a liquid-crystal structure. A fragrance composition containing a fragrance-retaining composition according to any one of claims 1 to 7 and one or several appropriate ingredient(s) and/or medium(s). A fragrance composition according to claim 8, wherein said fragrance-retaining composition is added to said fragrance composition in a proportion of 0.01 to 5.0 % by weight. A cosmetic or fragrance product comprising a fragrance composition defined in claim 8 or 9. A cosmetic or fragrance product according to claim 10 which is chosen from the group consisting of perfumed products, hair care products, skin care products, body cleansing products, clothing detergents and soft-finishing agents for clothing. Use of a fragrance-retaining composition defined in any one of claims 1 to 7 for reinforcing the endurance of scents in a fragrance compound or composition. <seperator>EP-1472945-A2<id_sep>classA43class groupA43B17slash00group subgroupA43B17slash02subgroup subclassA43Bsubclass sectionAsection Insole and container for insoles The invention relates to an insole (4) to be placed in a shoe, wherein the insole comprises two or more layers and wherein at least one of the two or more layers comprises active substances and particularly is impregnated therewith. The invention further relates to an assembly comprising insoles having a toe side and a heel side and a container (1) for accommodating the insoles therein, wherein the container comprises an opening for taking the insoles out of the container, and a lid for reclosable closing of the opening.  The invention relates to an insole, particularly to a pre-shaped insole, to be placed in a shoe. The invention furthermore relates to a container for insoles, and to an assembly of such a container and at least one insole. Insoles have been known for quite some time now in many varieties and variations. Such insoles are often sold packaged in pairs, and are used for offering comfort to the foot. Their principal functions are offering support to the foot in the shoe and offering shock absorption, their secondary function may be the reduction of adverse effects of enclosing the foot in a shoe for a shorter or longer period of time, such as the discomfort of foot odour. Many of the existing insoles are meant to be used for a longer period of time. During use over a longer period of time the insoles loose their secondary functions after some time as the effect of active substances providing said secondary functions usually is temporary. Moreover the insoles may after some time loose their shape as a result of which the walking comfort is reduced. A further drawback of such pre-shaped insoles is that they are rather thick which reduces the fit of the footwear of the user. When using such rather thick pre-shaped insoles a separate insole that shoe manufacturers place in their footwear moreover usually has to be removed for getting the right fit. On the other hand thin insoles are known that are meant for single use or for use during a shorter period of time. A drawback of these thin insoles is that they are limp and as a result usually difficult to place in the shoe. In addition the active substances, that may be incorporated in such a thin insole, usually are in direct contact with the ambient as a result the effect of the active substances decreases very rapidly or is totally undone prior to the actual use. It is an object of the invention to provide insoles for increasing the comfort of footwear during walking and counteracting the adverse effects of enclosing the foot in a shoe for a longer or shorter period of time. A further object of the invention is to package the insoles in new, at least alternative way. To that end the invention provides an insole to be placed in a shoe, wherein the insole comprises two or more layers and wherein at least one of the two or more layers comprises active substances and particularly is impregnated therewith. Preferably the two or more layers are connected to each other by arranging one or more polymers in between them from a group comprising: ethylene vinyl acetate, polyurethane, polyvinyl acetate, polycaprolactone, polyethylene and copolyamide. In addition to good adhesion properties said one or more polymers offer an important contribution to the firmness of the laminate. The one or more polymers may be added in several forms. When it is added as a powder, it is arranged on the substrate to be glued by sprinkling and is subsequently heated (by means of for instance infrared radiation, after which the second substrate is arranged and the laminate is pressed and finally cooled in air. Insole to be placed in a shoe, wherein the insole comprises two or more layers and wherein at least one of the two or more layers comprises active substances and particularly is impregnated therewith. Insole according to claim 1, wherein the two or more layers comprise a moisture permeable layer, wherein said moisture permeable layer preferably is provided with openings for a transport of moisture to an underlying layer of the insole, wherein the moisture permeable layer preferably comprises a knitting, fabric or non-woven, wherein the moisture permeable layer preferably forms an outermost layer of the insole for placing at a side of the insole facing away from the sole of the shoe, and wherein the thickness of the moisture permeable layer preferably is smaller than or equal to 0.6 mm, and preferably is larger than or equal to 0.3 mm. Insole according to claim 2, wherein the moisture permeable layer is entirely or partially made of one or more materials selected from a group comprising: polyester, polypropylene, polyacrylate and viscose. Insole according to claim 2 or 3, wherein the moisture permeable layer is provided with one or more active substances selected from a group comprising: surfactants, perspiration inhibitors, antibacterials, microorganism growth inhibitors, fatty matters, perfumes, odour absorbing substances and odour inhibitors. Insole according to claim 4, wherein the perspiration inhibitors comprise one or more selected from a group comprising: aluminium compounds, zinc compounds, tea tree oil and salvia oil. Insole according to claim 1, wherein the two or more layers comprise a shock absorbing layer, wherein said shock absorbing layer preferably is entirely or partially made of a foam material and/or a non-woven, and wherein the thickness of the shock absorbing layer preferably is smaller than or equal to 3.0 mm, and preferably is larger than or equal to 0.3 mm. Insole according to claim 6, wherein the shock absorbing layer is entirely or partially made of one or more materials selected from a group comprising: latex foam, polyurethane foam, ethylene vinyl acetate, thermoplastic rubber and polyvinyl acetate. Insole according to claim 6, wherein the shock absorbing layer is entirely or partially made of non-woven, and wherein the non-woven comprises one or more materials selected from a group comprising: polyester, viscose, blends of polyester and viscose, and cellulose wood pulp. Insole according to claim 8, wherein the shock absorbing layer comprises a layer of sodium polyacrylate, wherein the sodium polyacrylate is cross-linked with the non-woven. Insole according to any one of the claims 6-9, wherein the shock absorbing layer is provided with one or more active substances selected from a group comprising: moisture absorbing substances, odour absorbing substances, perfumes, anti-perspirants, antibacterials, cooling substances and active carbon. Insole according to claim 10, wherein the moisture absorbing substances comprise cellulose derivatives, preferably carboxymethyl cellulose, hydroxyethyl cellulose, starch, xanthan gum, sodium polyacrylate, viscose and/or wood pulp. Insole according to any one of the claims 6-11, wherein the active substances are incorporated in the shock absorbing layer in the form of micro capsules and/or in the form of inclusions, and wherein the micro capsules preferably comprise an outer wall that is soluble in moisture. Insole according to claim 1, wherein the two or more layers comprise a supporting layer, wherein said supporting layer preferably comprises a foam material, wherein said supporting layer preferably forms an outermost layer of the insole for placing at a side of the insole facing the sole of the shoe, and wherein the thickness of the supporting layer preferably is smaller than or equal to 6 mm, preferably smaller than or equal to 4 mm. Insole according to claim 13, wherein the foam material preferably comprises ethylene vinyl acetate foam and/or polyethylene foam. Insole according to claim 13 or 14, wherein the supporting layer is perforated. Insole according to claim 13, 14 or 15, wherein the supporting layer comprises recesses in which a resilient material has been placed, wherein the resilient material preferably comprises an elastomer, preferably a thermoplastic elastomer, and wherein the recesses preferably are at least arranged in a part of the insole for supporting a heel of the user and/or a part of the insole for supporting the ball of the foot of the user. Insole according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the insole comprises at least three layers, wherein the at least three layers comprise a moisture permeable layer, a shock absorbing layer and a supporting layer, wherein the shock absorbing layer preferably is placed in between the moisture permeable layer and the supporting layer. Insole according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the two or more layers are connected to each other by means of a glue connection, fusing together and/or ultrasonic welding. Insole according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the insole comprises indentations and/or continuous perforations extending through one or more layers, wherein preferably the one or more layers are pressed together near the indentations and/or continuous perforations, and wherein the indentations and/or continuous perforations preferably are defined by hollow needles or little tubes. Insole according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the active substances show a phase transition in a temperature range of 20 to 36 degrees Celsius. Insole according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the insole comprises heat-conducting elements, which preferably extend from a portion of the insole which when used is placed near the foot arch to a portion placed near the toes and/or the heel. Insole according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the active substances show a phase transition under the influence of a mechanic shock, wherein preferably at least in one of the layers of the insole one or more compartments have been formed containing the active substances, wherein the active substances preferably comprise an aqueous solution of sodium acetate. Insole according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the insole comprises heat reflecting ceramic fibres. Insole according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the active substances are soluble in moisture and during dissolving in moisture produce an endothermal reaction, wherein the active substances preferably comprise one or more selected from a group comprising: ammonium chloride, potassium nitrate, ammonium nitrate and Glauber salt. Insole according to claim 24, wherein the active substances are enclosed in a semipermeable matrix. Insole according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the active substances comprise magnetic, antistatic and/or electrically conductive materials. Insole according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the thickness of the insole decreases from a heel side of the insole towards a toe side of the insole, wherein the thickness of a portion of the insole for supporting a heel of a user, preferably is smaller than or equal to 6 mm, preferably smaller than or equal to 4 mm. Insole according to claim 27, wherein the thickness of a portion of the insole for supporting the toes of a user is smaller than or equal to 1 mm. Insole according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the side edges of the insole comprise a raised edge. Insole according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the insole comprises an outermost layer which at a side oriented to an outer side of the insole is provided with size marks. Method for manufacturing an insole according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein:  Method according to claim 31, wherein the glue comprises one or more polymers from a group comprising: ethylene vinyl acetate, polyurethane, polyvinyl acetate, polycaprolactone, polyethylene and copolyamide. Assembly comprising insoles having a toe side and a heel side and a container for accommodating the insoles therein, wherein the container comprises an opening for taking one or more of the insoles out of the container, and a lid for reclosable closing of the opening, wherein the lid and/or the container preferably comprise a substantially airtight closure for closing off the opening. Assembly according to claim 33, wherein the container comprises an elongated box having a first and a second end, wherein the first end comprises the opening and wherein the second end is permanently closed. Assembly according to claim 34, wherein the first end and the lid comprise a first and a second circumferential edge, respectively, wherein the first and the second circumferential edge overlap each other for closing the opening, wherein preferably the first circumferential edge comprises a neck and the second circumferential edge comprises a collar, wherein the collar can be slid over the neck. Assembly according to claim 35, wherein the first and the second circumferential edge comprise first and second closing means, respectively, wherein the first and second closing means in cooperation with each other form a closure. Assembly according to claim 36, wherein the first and the second closing means comprise a groove and a projecting rib, respectively, wherein the groove is placed at a side facing the second circumferential edge and at least partially runs around the first circumferential edge and wherein the rib is placed at a side facing the first circumferential edge and at least partially runs around the second circumferential edge for forming a closure in cooperation with the groove. Assembly according to claim 36 or 37, wherein the elongated box comprises longitudinal side walls defining a substantially rectangular cross-section, wherein two opposite longitudinal side walls are provided with the groove or the edge. Assembly according to any one of the claims 34-38, wherein the elongated box comprises longitudinal side walls defining a substantially rectangular cross-section, wherein two opposite longitudinal side walls of the elongated box at least partially substantially follow the contours of an insole, wherein preferably the second end substantially follows the contours of a heel side of the insole, and wherein preferably the first end substantially follows the contours of a toe side of the insole. Assembly according to claim 39, wherein the lid forms a cap for enclosing a toe side of insoles placed in the container, wherein the cap preferably is provided with thumb surfaces for releasing the cap from the first end of the container by pressing in, and wherein the cap preferably comprises longitudinal side walls defining a substantially rectangular cross-section, wherein the thumb surfaces preferably are placed at two opposite longitudinal side walls of the cap. Container, adapted and intended for use in an assembly according to claims 33-40, for containing insoles. Case for a stack of insoles comprising an opening for taking the insoles out of the case, and a lid for reclosable closing of the opening, wherein the case preferably has a toe side and a heel side, respectively, wherein the lid preferably is placed at a toe side of the case, and wherein the case and/or the lid preferably comprise a substantially airtight closure for closing the opening. Use of a case according to claim 42 for containing insoles. <seperator>EP-1376059-A2<id_sep>classG09class classG01class groupG06F13slash00group classG06class subgroupG08G1slash0967subgroup sectionGsection subclassG06Qsubclass subclassG01Csubclass subgroupG01C21slash26subgroup groupG06Q30slash00group groupG01C21slash00group classG08class subgroupG08G1slash0962subgroup groupG09F19slash00group subgroupG06F17slash30subgroup subclassG08Gsubclass subclassG06Fsubclass subgroupG09B29slash10subgroup subgroupG08G1slash0969subgroup subclassG09Bsubclass subclassG09Fsubclass Method of providing location-based advertising with route information A method of facilitating delivery of advertising to users of mobile computing platforms is disclosed. A geographic database contains data entities that represent geographic features, such as roads, located in a geographic region. Advertising zones are defined within the geographic region. Associated with at least some of the data entities that represent geographic features are data that indicate in which of the advertising zones the represented geographic feature is located. Advertisers are allowed to associate advertising messages with the advertising zones. Users of mobile computing platforms are provided with geographically-related services that use the geographic database. As a user of a mobile computing platform travels in the geographic region, the location of the mobile computing platform is determined. The user of the mobile computing platform is provided with the advertising message associated with the advertising zone in which the mobile computing platform is determined to be located. A route from the position of the mobile computing platform to a point of interest associated with the advertising message is computed.  The present invention relates to a method of providing location-based advertising and route information from an end user's current position to a point of interest associated with the advertising. Persons who travel through a geographic region can use different types of mobile or portable computing platforms to obtain various geographically-related features and services. Mobile or portable computing platforms that provide geographically-related features and services include dedicated computing devices and general purpose computing devices. Dedicated computing devices include in-vehicle navigation systems and personal (i.e., portable or hand-held) navigation systems. General purpose computing devices include devices, such as portable personal computers (e.g., notebook computers) and personal digital assistants (e.g., PDAs). General purpose computing devices can provide geographically-related features and services by operating navigation application software or by using geographic data. Mobile or portable computing platforms that provide geographically-related features and services include standalone systems that have geographic data and navigation application software installed locally, client devices that access geographic data or navigation application software located at a remote location, and hybrid devices that have some geographic data or navigation application software installed locally but obtain or use geographic data or navigation application software located at a remote location. Some of the various geographically-related features and services provided by the different types of mobile or portable computing platforms include route calculation and guidance. For example, some mobile or portable computing platforms are able to provide users with an optimum route to travel by roads between locations in a geographic region. Using input from an end user, and optionally from equipment that can determine the end user's physical location (such as a GPS system), a navigation application program used by a mobile or portable computing platform system examines various paths between two locations to determine an optimum route to travel from a starting location to a destination location in the geographic region. The user of the mobile or portable computing platform is then provided with information about the optimum route in the form of instructions that identify the maneuvers required to be taken by the end user to travel from the starting location to the destination location. Another geographically-related feature provided by some mobile or portable computing platforms is business or person finding services (e.g., electronic yellow or white pages). These services can identify addresses of individuals or businesses. These services can also identify for a user which businesses of a certain type (e.g., Chinese restaurants) are located within a given range (e.g., 3 miles) of a given location. Although present mobile or portable computing platforms that provide geographically-related features and services are able to provide many useful advantages, there continues to be room for improvement. One area in which there is room for improvement relates to providing information to end users based upon their location. Some types of information, such as advertising, can be more effective or useful if it is restricted to only certain specific locations. Another area for improvement relates to providing route information from an end user's current position to a point of interest associated with the advertising. A method of delivering advertising to mobile computing platforms comprising:  The method of Claim 1 wherein said advertising messages are provided over a wireless communications link to the mobile computing platform from a navigation services server. The method of Claim 1 wherein the route is calculated by a navigation services server and provided over a wireless communications link to the mobile computing platform. The method of Claim 1 wherein the route is calculated by a route calculation program in the mobile computing platform. The method of Claim 1 further comprising:  The method of Claim 5 further comprising: The method of Claim 1 wherein the route calculation considers traffic conditions of the route from the position of mobile computing platform to travel to the point of interest. The method of Claim 1 further comprising:  The method of Claim 8 further comprising:  The method of Claim 9 wherein if the input represents a selection of traveling to the point of interest, providing a route guidance via the user interface of the mobile computing platform. The method of Claim 1 further comprising:  The method of Claim 1 further comprising:  The method of Claim 1 further comprising:  The method of Claim 11 further comprising:  The method of Claim 1 further comprising:  The method of Claim 1 wherein the step of determining the position identifies a physical billboard proximate the mobile computing platform. The method of Claim 1 wherein the step of determining the position identifies a road segment that the mobile computing platform will be travelling based on an original route over a plurality of interconnected road segments from an origin to a destination. A method of delivering advertising to mobile computing units comprising:  The method of Claim 18 further comprising:  The method of Claim 18 further comprising:  The method of Claim 20 wherein the travel time calculation considers traffic conditions of the route from the position of the mobile computing platform to the point of interest. The method of Claim 20 wherein the travel time calculation considers road conditions of the route from the position of the mobile computing platform to the point of interest. The method of Claim 18 further comprising:  A method of delivering advertising to mobile computing platforms comprising:  The method of Claim 24 wherein the travel time calculation considers traffic conditions of the route from the position of mobile computing platform to travel to the point of interest. The method of Claim 24 wherein the step of determining the position identifies a road segment that the mobile computing platform will be travelling based on an original route over a plurality of interconnected road segments from an origin to a destination. A method of delivering location-based warnings to computing platforms comprising:  The method of Claim 27 wherein said warning message relates to an adverse weather condition. The method of Claim 27 wherein said warning message relates to traffic conditions in the zone. The method of claim 29 further including:  A method of facilitating delivery of advertising to a mobile computing platform traveling in a geographic region comprising:  The method of Claim 31 wherein the physical billboard is identified by determining a position of the mobile computing platform and identifying the physical billboard capable of being viewed from the position of the mobile computing platform. The method of Claim 31 wherein the physical billboard is identified by an input on the mobile computing platform. The method of Claim 31 further including calculating a route for the mobile computing platform to travel from a current position of the mobile computing platform to a point of interest associated with the physical billboard. The method of Claim 31 wherein the billboard information comprises a route for the mobile computing platform to travel from a current position of the mobile computing platform to a point of interest associated with the physical billboard. The method of Claim 31 further including calculating a travel time for the mobile computing platform to travel from a current position of the mobile computing platform to a point of interest associated with the physical billboard. The method of Claim 31 wherein the billboard information comprises calculating a travel time for the mobile computing platform to travel from a current position of the mobile computing platform to a point of interest associated with the physical billboard. The method of Claim 31 wherein the billboard information comprises an advertising message associated with the physical billboard. A method of facilitating delivery of advertising to a mobile computing platform comprising:  <seperator>EP-1431946-A1<id_sep>subgroupG08G1slash0962subgroup subgroupG07B15slash02subgroup subclassG07Bsubclass sectionGsection subgroupG08G1slash123subgroup subclassG08Gsubclass subgroupG08G1slash01subgroup classG07class classG08class Communications device for motor vehicles for receiving selective information transmitted by a service center A data communications device comprises a locator unit of the satellite type (GPS), a transceiver that operates in the mobile-telephone frequency range (GSM,GPRS,UMTS), a short-range communications device for communication with local detectors (4), and a display for displaying information received over one or more of the receivers; by integrating these electronic components it is possible to receive selectively information sent by a service center (50) that is specific for each individual user and is selected according to the position currently occupied by the vehicle within the road network managed by an operator.  The present invention generally relates to a road information system and more particularly to a device for motor vehicles capable of receiving and displaying information processed starting from different sources on the basis of data made available by known navigation systems and from information transmitted or resent toward a service center by said device. Motor vehicle navigation systems, such as satellite navigation systems, are currently well-known and allow to determine precisely the position of the vehicle on which the navigation system is installed and to calculate easily the speed of said vehicle on the basis of the time spent to travel the distance between two points. Current navigation systems are based on the so-called Global Positioning System or GPS, a system that uses a constellation of twenty-four NAVSTAR-GPS satellites owned by N.A.S.A., each of which transmits in broadcast mode, i.e., generically and not to a specific recipient, its position at every instant. Reception of the signal sent by at least three satellites allows to calculate the position of the receiver with great precision. It becomes therefore possible, by associating this information with a geographical map managed in electronic form by a computer, to display on a screen, in the context of said map, the position of the vehicle on which the satellite navigation system is installed and to provide the driver with road information for reaching a preselected destination. It is known that road networks often have toll sections, the use of which entails paying a toll, which is usually calculated on the basis of the distance actually traveled by the vehicle. This occurs in particular in most highway networks in several countries, which are managed by an operator. Toll payment at the toll station is a cause of slow traffic and queues on highways, and therefore, as information technology and data communications have become widespread, fully automatic payment systems have been developed which allow drivers of vehicles to avoid stopping at the toll station as traditionally usually required in order to complete the transaction. These systems substantially comprise devices for detecting the transit of a vehicle which are located at highway toll stations and activate a communication with a corresponding communications device installed on board the vehicle in transit and are finally connected to a data communications network in order to send to a service center data that indicate the transit of the vehicle. For the sake of simplicity in description, the device installed on board the vehicle is identified hereinafter by the expression "electronic pass": an example of this electronic pass is the Telepass™, which identifies the system currently used on the Italian highway network. Likewise, again for the sake of simplicity in description, the device installed at one or more gates of a highway toll station for detecting the presence of an electronic pass is identified hereinafter by the expression "local detector". Thanks to the electronic pass, whenever a vehicle provided with said device transits in the vicinity of a gate of a toll station on which a local detector is installed, the local detector acquires a unique identification code of the electronic pass and transmits to the service center, over a data communications network, information related to the transit that has occurred. The central system then stores the data received according to an appropriate format in order to keep trace of the event and if necessary to calculate the amount due related to the road or highway section traveled, the toll of which is then charged automatically to the owner of the electronic pass. A data communications device for motor vehicles, characterized in that it comprises:  The data communications device for motor vehicles according to claim 1, characterized in that said satellite receiver is a GPS-type receiver. The data communications device for motor vehicles according to claims 1 or 2, characterized in that said mobile-telephone frequency range and protocols are selected from the group that comprises GSM, GPRS and UMTS. The data communications device for motor vehicles according to claims 1 or 3, characterized in that said short-range transceiver is a transceiver of the Telepass™ type. The data communications device for motor vehicles according to claim 4, characterized in that said local sites comprise road toll stations. The data communications device for motor vehicles according to any one of the preceding claims, further comprising a receiver for acquiring commands sent by a control device driven by a user. The data communications device for motor vehicles according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that said control device is a keyboard. The data communications device for motor vehicles according to one or more of the preceding claims, characterized in that it comprises a timer for periodically and automatically sending significant data regarding the vehicle on which the device is installed. The data communications device for motor vehicles according to claim 7, characterized in that it comprises a control key for manually sending significant data related to the vehicle on which the device is installed. The data communications device for motor vehicles according to claim 9, characterized in that significant data further comprise at least one of the following:  The data communications device for motor vehicles according to one of the preceding claims, characterized in that it comprises:  The data communications device for motor vehicles according to claim 11, characterized in that said expected speed can be set remotely. <seperator>EP-1494043-A2<id_sep>groupG01S13slash00group sectionGsection classG01class subgroupG01S7slash292subgroup subgroupG01S13slash93subgroup subclassG01Ssubclass Short-range vehicular radar system Short-range vehicular radar systems are described. In one implementation, an apparatus used in radar applications includes a programmable digital receiver (114) having an adaptable interference filter (216, 218) that is configured to reject radar pulses received from another radar system. In another implementation, a short-range vehicular radar system includes receive and transmission antennae (116(1), 116(2)), a programmable delay generator (201), and programmable receiver (114). The programmable delay generator (201) is configured to control transmission of pulses from the transmission antenna (116(2)) at randomly selected times to prevent ambiguities associated with target objects that are distances away from the transmission antenna (116(2)) that are greater than the speed of light times the pulse repetition rate divided by two. The programmable receiver (114) is calibrated to sample signals received by the receive antenna (116(1)) relative to when the pulses are emitted from the transmission antenna (116(2)).   The present invention relates generally to radar systems, and more particularly, to short-range vehicular radar systems.  Increasingly motor vehicles are being deployed with radar systems to perform various safety applications. For instance, radar systems may be used as a back-up warning system to warn a driver when his vehicle is about to back into an object. Other applications may include warning a driver when another vehicle is in a region known as the vehicle's "blind-spot," which is the region on either side of the driver's vehicle, but outside the visible scope of the vehicle's mirrors. Another application may include crash avoidance systems that warn a driver when the vehicle is too close to another vehicle or control the vehicle's speed in relation to other vehicles, such as when the vehicle is operating in a cruise control mode. To meet the demands of these varied applications, many radar system manufacturers are attempting to design and build radar systems that are inexpensive enough to function in this environment, but also function reliably. Many manufacturers are finding it difficult, however, to build robust radar systems that are reliable and relatively inexpensive. As a result, many radar systems are still in prototype stages or are not deployed to assist drivers today, because they fail to provide trustworthy information to drivers at reasonable costs. In terms of being unreliable, many vehicle radar-warning systems are susceptible to interference from other radar systems. That is, vehicular radar systems are often unable to discriminate between signals originating from their own transmitters as compared to signals received from different radar systems. Consequently, interference from other radar systems may cause a particular vehicle's radar system to fail to detect a real object, commonly referred to as being "blinded," a condition that may lead to a catastrophic event, such as an accident. Additionally, interference from other radar systems may cause a particular vehicle's system to declare a false target. Other problems with current vehicular radar systems often involve their inability to detect how far away a target object is from the vehicle. For example, many vehicle radar systems use continuous wave radar in which a transmitter continuously emits energy at a single frequency. Unfortunately, this type of radar provides no downrange resolution, and so the radar may not be able to ascertain how close or far a particular object is from a vehicle.  Short-range vehicular radar systems are described herein. In one implementation, an apparatus used in radar applications includes a programmable digital receiver having an adaptable interference filter that is configured to reject radar pulses received from another radar system. In another implementation, a short-range vehicular radar system includes receive and transmission antennae, a programmable delay generator, and a programmable receiver. The programmable delay generator is configured to control transmission of pulses from the transmission antenna at randomly selected times. This prevents ambiguities associated with target objects that are at distances (d) greater than the speed of light (c) times the pulse repetition interval (pri) divided by two [d > c * pri / 2 ] away from the transmission antenna. The programmable receiver is calibrated to sample signals received by the receive antenna relative to when the pulses are emitted from the transmission antenna. A short-range vehicular radar system comprising: a programmable digital receiver (114) having an adaptable interference filter (216, 218) configured to reject radar pulses received from another radar system. The short-range vehicular radar system as recited in Claim 1, wherein the adaptable interference filter (216, 218) comprises an adaptable non-linear filter module implemented as a sliding window median filter. The short-range vehicular radar system as recited in Claim 1 or 2, wherein the adaptable interference filter (216, 218) is a non-linear filter module in which radar pulses received by the radar system are digitized and statistically compared to the median value of a sliding time period. The short-range vehicular radar system as recited in any one of the Claims 1 to 3, wherein the programmable digital receiver is within about 100 feet (30,48 m) of a target object. The short-range vehicular radar system as recited in any one of the Claims 1 to 4, wherein the short-range vehicular radar system is used in vehicular applications including at least one of the following applications: crash avoidance systems, stop and go systems, backup warning systems, blind-spot warning systems, and parking assistant systems. An apparatus, comprising:  The apparatus as recited in Claim 6, wherein the apparatus is a short-range vehicular radar used in vehicular applications in which a target object is within about 100 feet (30,48 m) of the programmable digital receiver. A short-range vehicular radar system, comprising:  The short-range vehicular radar system as recited in Claim 8, wherein the programmable delay generator (201) includes a programmable random jitter generator module (204), configured to generate a random time in which a pulse is emitted from the transmission antenna (116(2)). The short-range vehicular radar system as recited in Claim 8, wherein the programmable delay generator includes a programmable random jitter generator module (204), configured to generate a random time in which a pulse is emitted from the transmission antenna; and    a programmable range delay module (208) coupled to the programmable random jitter generator module (204), configured to introduce a programmable delay period to the random time in which a pulse is emitted from the transmission antenna (116(2)). The short-range vehicular radar system as recited in any one of the Claims 8 to 10, further comprising:  The short-range vehicular radar system as recited in any one of the Claims 8 to 10, further comprising a receive antenna (116(1)); and a programmable receiver (114) configured to monitor when the programmable range delay module (208) generates the random time in which the pulse is emitted from the transmission antenna (116(2)) and based on the random time adaptively wait a delayed period of time after the pulse is emitted from the transmission antenna (116(2)) before sampling a signal received by the receive antenna (116(1)). The short-range vehicular radar system as recited in any one of the Claims 8 to 10, further comprising:  The short-range vehicular radar system as recited in any one of the Claims 8 to 13, wherein the short-range vehicular radar system is used in vehicular applications including at least one of the following applications: crash avoidance systems, backup warning systems, blind-spot warning systems, and parking assistant systems. The short-range vehicular radar system as recited in any one of the Claims 8 to 14, wherein the transmit antenna is configured to operate within a maximum target range of about 100 feet (30,48 m) from a target object. A short-range vehicular radar system, comprising:  The short-range vehicular radar system as recited in Claim 16, wherein the programmable delay generator (201) includes a random jitter module (204) configured to generate random times when to generate the pulses. The short-range vehicular radar system as recited in Claim 16 or 17, wherein the programmable delay generator (201) includes a sampler delay module (206) coupled to the programmable receiver (114), configured to adaptively control when the programmable receiver (114) samples the signals received by the receive antenna (116(1)). <seperator>EP-1350626-A1<id_sep>subgroupB41J2slash14subgroup sectionBsection subclassB41Jsubclass subgroupB41J2slash055subgroup subgroupB41J2slash045subgroup classB41class Liquid jetting head A vibration plate forms a part of a pressure chamber communicated with a nozzle orifice from which a liquid droplet is ejected. The pressure chamber is defined by first edges extending in a first direction with a first dimension and second edges extending in a second direction substantially perpendicular to the first direction with a second dimension shorter than the first dimension. A piezoelectric vibrator is disposed on the vibration plate so as to oppose to the pressure chamber. The piezoelectric vibrator includes a drive electrode extending beyond one of the second edges, a first piezoelectric layer laminated on the drive electrode so as to extend beyond the second edges, and a first common electrode laminated on the first piezoelectric layer. A drive terminal is electrically connected to the drive electrode to supply a drive signal thereto. The drive terminal is overlaid on one of portions of the first piezoelectric layer where is extended beyond the second edges, while being separated from the first common electrode.  BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to a liquid jetting head for ejecting a liquid droplet from a nozzle orifice by causing pressure fluctuation to occur in liquid in a pressure chamber as a piezoelectric vibrator becomes deformed. Liquid jetting heads each for ejecting a liquid droplet from a nozzle orifice by causing pressure fluctuation to occur in liquid in a pressure chamber include a recording head, a liquid crystal jetting head, a color material jetting head, and the like, for example. The recording head is installed in an image recording apparatus such as a printer or a plotter for ejecting ink liquid as ink droplets. The liquid crystal jetting head is used with a display manufacturing apparatus for manufacturing liquid crystal displays. In the display manufacturing apparatus, a liquid crystal ejected from the liquid crystal jetting head is poured into a predetermined grid of a display substrate having a large number of grids. The color material jetting head is used with a filter manufacturing apparatus for manufacturing a color filter, and ejects a color material onto the surface of a filter substrate. Various types of liquid jetting heads are available, one of which is a liquid jetting head for ejecting liquid droplets by deflecting and deforming piezoelectric vibrators formed on the surface of a vibration plate. This liquid jetting head is made up of an actuator unit including pressure chambers and piezoelectric vibrators and a flow passage unit including nozzle orifices and a common liquid reservoir, for example. In the liquid jetting head, a piezoelectric vibrator on the vibration plate is deformed, whereby the volume of the corresponding pressure chamber is changed for causing pressure fluctuation to occur in liquid stored in the pressure chamber. Using the pressure fluctuation, a liquid droplet is ejected from the corresponding nozzle orifice. For example, the pressure chamber is contracted, whereby liquid is pressurized for pushing out the liquid from the nozzle orifice. By the way, there is a strong demand for miniaturizing such a liquid jetting head, because the range of uses of the liquid jetting head can be increased as the liquid jetting head is miniaturized. The actuator units are produced, for example, as ceramics are baked. Thus, as the actuator unit is miniaturized, the number of actuator units produced for each lot (for example, from one ceramic sheet) can be increased, leading to cost reduction. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION It is therefore an object of the invention to provide a liquid jetting head having a structure suited for miniaturization. In order to achieve the above object, according to the invention, there is provided a liquid jetting head, comprising: Preferably, the piezoelectric vibrator further comprises: a second common electrode, formed on the vibration plate and electrically connected to the first common electrode; and a second piezoelectric layer, interposed between the second common electrode and the drive electrode. In such a configuration, as the end portion of the drive terminal is overlaid, the size in the longitudinal direction of the piezoelectric vibrator can be reduced accordingly, so that head miniaturization can be accomplished. A liquid jetting head, comprising:  The liquid jetting head as set forth in claim 1, wherein the piezoelectric vibrator further comprises:  <seperator>EP-1833135-A1<id_sep>subclassH02Hsubclass sectionHsection subgroupH02H7slash30subgroup classH02class subgroupH02H3slash02subgroup subgroupH02H7slash26subgroup Switchgear with a plurality of outgoing feeders and method for interrupting an overcurrent. The invention relates to a switchgear for distribution of electrical power comprising an incoming feeder (12) provided with a circuit breaker (14) with short-circuit current interrupting capability, and at least one outgoing feeder (13a-13d) provided with a switching device (15a-15d) with capability of switching in and out, at the rated load current of the switchgear, a load connected to the outgoing feeder and with capability of conducting but not interrupting a short-circuit current. The invention also relates to a method for interrupting an overcurrent flowing through an electrical power distribution switchgear.  The present invention relates to a switchgear for distribution of electrical power comprising an incoming feeder, which is provided with a circuit breaker with short-circuit current interrupting capability, and two or more outgoing feeders connected to the incoming feeder. The invention also relates to a method for interrupting an overcurrent flowing through an electrical power distribution switchgear. A switchgear may be used in a distribution or transmission network for distributing electrical power to different loads, for instance within an industrial plant. A conventional medium voltage switchgear for distribution of electrical power is illustrated in Fig 1 of the appended drawings. This prior art switchgear 1 comprises an incoming feeder 2 and a number of outgoing feeders 3a-3d connected to the incoming feeder 2. A circuit breaker 4 is arranged in the incoming feeder and a circuit breaker 5a-5d is also arranged in each outgoing feeder. The circuit breakers 5a-5d of the outgoing feeders are used for switching in and out the loads 6a-6d connected to the outgoing feeders and are also to be capable of interrupting any short-circuit current that may flow through the switchgear 1. The circuit breakers 4, 5a-5d are rated for the system voltage, the nominal currents and the short-circuit currents. The short-circuit current could be as high as 100 times the nominal current. The circuit breakers 5a-5d of the outgoing feeders are in many cases, particularly for industrial applications, operated very frequently to switch loads 6a-6d in and out, which implies that these circuit breakers have to be designed to withstand a large number of switching operations. The demands on the circuit breakers result in a high cost for the switchgear. Furthermore, the opening or closing of a conventional circuit breaker, which uses movable mechanical contacts and electrical arcs for interruption of currents, is a transient operation that could cause transient overvoltages and high inrush currents, which often makes it necessary to protect the loads 6a-6d by means of surge protection equipment, such as surge arresters 7a-7d, which implies an added cost for the customer. This problem can be avoided by using semiconductor based circuit breakers. However, semiconductor based circuit breakers are very costly. The object of the present invention is to provide a novel type switchgear for distribution of electrical power. According to the invention, this object is achieved by a switchgear having the features defined in claim 1. In the inventive switchgear, the incoming feeder is provided with a circuit breaker with short-circuit current interrupting capability and at least one of the outgoing feeders, preferably each one of them, is provided with a switching device with capability of switching in and out, at the rated load current of the switchgear, a load connected to the outgoing feeder and with capability of conducting but not interrupting a short-circuit current. Thus, said switching devices of the outgoing feeders are of a type designed to have switching capability so as to be able to switch in and out a load at the rated load current, and short-circuit current conducting capability so as to be able to conduct any short-circuit current flowing through the switchgear without being damaged, but designed to lack short-circuit current interrupting capability. In the inventive switchgear, a short-circuit current interrupting capability is only assigned to the circuit breaker of the incoming feeder. Hereby, the outgoing feeders can be provided with switching devices optimized for performing a large number of switching operations without causing undesired electrical disturbances, such as transient overvoltages, without having to take into account any short-circuit current interrupting capacity of the switching device. This will make it possible to accomplish an efficient and reliable switchgear at relatively low cost. A switchgear for distribution of electrical power comprising:  A switchgear according to claim 1,  A switchgear according to claim 2,  A switchgear according to any of claims 1-3,  A switchgear according to any of claims 1-3,  A switchgear according to any of claims 1-5,  A switchgear according to any of claims 1-6,  A method for interrupting an overcurrent flowing through an electrical power distribution switchgear comprising an incoming feeder (12) provided with a circuit breaker (14) and two or more outgoing feeders (13a-13d), each of which being connected to the incoming feeder (12) and being provided with a switching device (15a-15d) for switching in and out a load connected to the outgoing feeder, wherein:  A method according to claim 8, wherein the circuit breaker (14) of the incoming feeder (12) is closed after the opening of the switching device (15a-15d) of the outgoing feeder (13a-13d) subjected to said overcurrent so as to allow power supply to the other outgoing feeders of the switchgear. <seperator>EP-1521099-A1<id_sep>sectionHsection classG01class classH01class subgroupG01T1slash161subgroup subclassH01Lsubclass subclassA61Bsubclass subgroupH01L31slash09subgroup subgroupG01T1slash24subgroup classH04class classA61class sectionGsection subgroupH01L31slash08subgroup subgroupH01L27slash14subgroup subgroupA61B6slash03subgroup groupG01T1slash00group subgroupH04N5slash30subgroup subclassG01Tsubclass subclassH04Nsubclass subgroupG01T1slash29subgroup sectionAsection Semiconductor radiation detector and radiological imaging apparatus A radiation imaging apparatus with high spatial resolution including semiconductor radiation detectors arranged on a wiring board capable of detecting γ-rays by separating their positions in the direction of incidence of γ-rays is provided. A semiconductor radiation detector (12) is constructed by including five semiconductor devices (2) made up of, for example, CdTe rectangular parallelepiped plates, a cathode electrode (3) on one side of the semiconductor device (2), an anode electrode (4) on the other side of the semiconductor device (2) and an insulator (5) for coating five semiconductor detection devices (1) from the outside. The semiconductor radiation detector (12) is mounted on a wiring board (21) using an anode pin (29) and a cathode pin (30).  The present invention relates to a semiconductor radiation detector, which allows semiconductor radiation detectors to be arranged in a three-dimensional direction and a radiation imaging apparatus using the same. A semiconductor radiation detector is provided with a semiconductor device made of CdTe, CdZnTe, etc., and electrodes formed on both sides of this semiconductor device designed to pick up electric charge generated when radiation such as X-rays or γ-rays enter the semiconductor device by applying a bias voltage between these electrodes from the electrodes as a signal. When a semiconductor radiation detector is used for a medical radiation imaging apparatus, etc., the semiconductor radiation detector is connected on a wiring board to form a radiation detection section (see JP-A-2003-84068 (paragraph 00024, Fig. 3), for example). A PET (Positron Emission Tomography), which is a kind of a medical radiation imaging apparatus, is intended to improve spatial resolution. However, the device described in JP-A-2003-84068 can detect γ-rays mainly on a plane of incidence of γ-rays (e.g., X-Y plane) by separating their positions but cannot detect γ-rays in the direction of incidence of γ-rays (e.g., Z-direction) by separating the positions. That is, the device cannot detect γ-rays by separating the positions in the three-dimensional direction. Thus, it cannot improve spatial resolution sufficiently. It is an object of the present invention to provide a semiconductor radiation detector and radiation imaging apparatus capable of improving spatial resolution. A feature of a first embodiment of the invention for solving the above described problem is a semiconductor radiation detector comprising a plurality of semiconductor detection devices, each having an anode electrode on one side of a semiconductor device and a cathode electrode on the other side, arranged in parallel and an insulator which coats at least a portion of the semiconductor detection devices from the outside. This enables the semiconductor radiation detector to be arranged in an arbitrary position and its spatial resolution to be improved. The semiconductor radiation detector preferably has a structure in which internal wiring is provided in the interior or on the surface of the insulator for transmitting electrical signals from cathode and anode signals. A feature of a second embodiment of the invention for solving the above described problem is a detector module comprising a semiconductor radiation detector and a wiring board, wherein the semiconductor radiation detector comprises a plurality of semiconductor detection devices, each having a cathode electrode on one side of a semiconductor device and an anode electrode on the other side arranged in parallel in such a way that the cathode electrodes of the neighboring semiconductor detection devices are opposed to each other and an insulator which coats at least a portion of the semiconductor detection devices from the outside, wherein the cathode electrode is connected to a first wiring provided on the wiring board through a pin and the anode electrode is connected to a second wiring provided on the wiring board through another pin. Furthermore, a feature of a third embodiment of the invention for solving the above described problem is a detector module comprising a semiconductor radiation detector and a first wiring board, wherein the semiconductor radiation detector comprises a plurality of semiconductor detection devices, each having a cathode electrode on one side of a semiconductor device and an anode electrode on the other side, arranged in parallel in such a way that the cathode electrodes are opposed to each other and the anode electrodes are opposed to each other, a second wiring board is disposed between the neighboring cathode electrodes, the respective cathode electrodes are connected to a plurality of second wirings provided on the second wiring board, a third wiring board is disposed between the neighboring anode electrodes and the respective anode electrodes are connected to a plurality of third wirings provided on the third wiring board, wherein the semiconductor radiation detector is disposed on the first wiring board, and the second wiring of the second wiring board is connected to the first wiring provided on the first wiring board and the third wiring of the third wiring board is connected to a fourth wiring provided on the first wiring board. A semiconductor radiation detector comprising:  The semiconductor radiation detector according to claim 1, wherein said plurality of semiconductor detection devices are arranged in parallel in such a way that said cathode electrodes of said neighboring semiconductor detection devices are opposed to each other. The semiconductor radiation detector according to claim 1, wherein said plurality of semiconductor detection devices are arranged in parallel in such a way that said anode electrodes of said neighboring semiconductor detection devices are opposed to each other. The semiconductor radiation detector according to claim 1, wherein said electrodes are arranged in a staggered configuration to form protrusions and internal wirings are connected to the corresponding electrodes of these protrusions. A detector module comprising: The detector module according to claim 5, wherein said semiconductor radiation detector is provided on both sides of said wiring board. The detector module according to claim 6, wherein said semiconductor radiation detector provided on one side of said wiring board and said other semiconductor radiation detector provided on the other side of said wiring board are opposed to each other with respect to said wiring board. A detector module comprising:  The detector module according to claim 8, wherein said semiconductor radiation detector is disposed on said wiring board using a conductive pin. The detector module according to claim 9, wherein said semiconductor radiation detector is disposed on both sides of said wiring board. The detector module according to claim 10, wherein said semiconductor radiation detector disposed on one side of said wiring board and said other semiconductor radiation detector disposed on the other side of said wiring board are opposed to each other with respect to said wiring board. The detector module according to claim 8, wherein said semiconductor radiation detector is fixed to both sides of said wiring board using a conductive adhesive. A detector module comprising:  The detector module according to claim 13, wherein a plurality of said semiconductor devices are disposed in a direction in which radiation propagates. The detector module according to claim 13, wherein said semiconductor radiation detector is disposed on both sides of said first wiring board. The detector module according to claim 13, wherein said plurality of second wirings or said plurality of third wirings are electrically shorted. The detector module according to claim 16, wherein signal output ends of said plurality of second wirings or said plurality of third wirings which are not electrically shorted are disposed opposite to an incident radiation side. The detector module according to claim 13, wherein said second and third wiring boards are flexible wiring boards. A radiation imaging apparatus comprising the detector module according to any one of claim 5, claim 8 and claim 13 and a bed for supporting an examinee. The radiation imaging apparatus accoridng to claim 19, comprising:  A positron emission tomography apparatus comprising:  <seperator>EP-1435249-A1<id_sep>groupA61L24slash00group sectionAsection classA61class subclassA61Lsubclass Composition for in vivo vessel repair The present invention relates to a biocompatible polymer composition, suitable for  The invention relates to a biocompatible polymer composition, suitable for Aneurysms are local dilatations in blood vessels, in particular arteries that gradually enlarge in time. Unless an aneurysm is adequately treated, it may eventually rupture and cause severe damage to the body, possibly even result in shock or death. Aortic aneurysms are in particular an important cause of death in human adults of 55 years and older. Traditional repair of an aneurysm entails a major operation with an incision into the aneurysm, evacuation of the clot that is usually contained within, placement of a synthetic graft and wrapping of the graft with the remnants of the artery wall. A more recent development is the endovascular stent technique. This procedure does not require general anaesthesia and can be done less invasively by simply placing a self-expanding stent via a catheter passed through one of the femoral arteries into the aneurysm to stabilise it. Less fit patients are able to withstand the procedure, hospital stay is cut to 1 to 2 days, and post-operative recovery is shortened considerably. In WO 95/08289 it is proposed to repair cardiovascular anomalies via the introduction of a photo-activatable biopolymer, which is introduced to the anomaly via a catheter system, after which the polymer is cross-linked. The publication mentions several examples of potentially suitable polymers, wherein it is suggested to be advantageous that the polymers are not only photo-activatable but also biodegradable and resorbable. A catheter system for delivering fluid materials, such as medicaments to a body vessel is reported in EP 0 667 131 A2. The fluid material is for example a mixture comprising an epoxy resin that cures in the presence of ions. WO 96/182427 relates to an The American patent US-A 6,306,177 describes a method and a related composition for repairing tissue, in particular bone and cartilage. The method involves the use of a curable polyurethane. The publication describes curable polyurethane compositions in general terms and is silent about specific characteristics of a composition for use in (aortic) aneurism repair, such as the viscosity requirements in combination with specific required or desired physical features of the cured compositions, inside the blood vessel. The Dutch patent 1 005 190 discloses an apparatus for treating a body cavity or body vessel with a curable material, such as polyurethane (PUR). It is described that the apparatus can be used in the treatment of an aorta aneurysm. Although considerable attention has been paid to the development of delivery systems for fluid material to a body cavity or vessel, it has been found that the availability of compositions for treating cavities or vessels In particular, it has been found that known polymer compositions suffer from one or more drawbacks, Accordingly, it is an object of the present invention to provide a novel polymer composition that can be used for treatment of cavity or vessel, in particular for the repair of an aneurysm that can be used as an alternative to known compositions. It has been found that this object is achieved by a specific fluid biocompatible polymer composition having a viscosity in a specific range. Accordingly, the present invention relates to a fluid biocompatible polymer composition, suitable for vessel repair - in particular for aneurysm repair-said composition comprising a matrix pre-polymer, a filler and a curing agent, wherein said composition has a viscosity at 25 °C, as measured by a Brookfield viscosimeter, UK, of 2 000-12 000 cSt (corresponding to 2-12 Pa.s for a composition with a density of 1 000 kg/m A biocompatible polymer composition, suitable for in vivo vessel repair, comprising a matrix pre-polymer, a filler and a curing agent, wherein said composition has a viscosity of 2 000 to 12 000 cSt at 25 °C and wherein said biocompatible polymer composition is curable in the presence of a curing catalyst at 37 °C to form a cured material with an elongation until rupture of at least 5 % and an elastic modulus of at least 1 MPa. Composition according to claim 1, wherein the viscosity of the biocompatible polymer composition is in the range of 3 000 to 10 000 cSt, preferably of 4 000 to 8 000 cSt. Composition according to claim 1 or 2, wherein said biocompatible polymer composition is curable in the presence of a curing catalyst at 37 °C to form a cured material with an elongation until rupture of at least 10 %, preferably at least 25 %. Composition according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the matrix pre-polymer is a silicon (pre-)polymer, preferably a polydialkylsiloxane (pre-)polymer comprising at least two vinyl groups more preferably, more preferably polydialkylsiloxane (pre-)polymer comprising three to five vinyl groups. Composition according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the filler is a hydrophobic filler. Composition according claim 5, wherein the hydrophobic filler is modified with an organosilicon compound, preferably with a vinylalkylsiloxane. Composition according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the biocompatible polymer composition comprises a curing-inhibitor. Composition according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the concentration of the matrix pre-polymer is 10 to 85 wt. % based on the total weight of the composition, preferably 50-70 wt. %. Composition according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the curing agent is present in an amount of at least 0.1 wt. % based on the total weight of the composition. Composition according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the curing agent is a polyalkylhydrosiloxane polymer, preferably a polyalkylhydrosiloxane copolymer comprising alkylhydrosiloxane moieties and dialkylsiloxane moieties, more preferably comprising methylhydrosiloxane moieties and dimethylsiloxane moieties. Composition according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the curing agent is present in an amount providing a number of functional groups in the range of 1-10 times the number of functional groups that is provided by the matrix pre-polymer. Composition according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the filler is present in an amount of 1-50 wt. %, preferably 2-45 wt. %, more preferably 15-40 wt. %, based on the total weight of the composition. Composition according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the composition comprises at least one filler selected from the group consisting of silica nanofillers, molecular silica, clay nanofillers, mica nanofillers, polymeric microfibres and glass microfibres. Composition according to any of the preceding claims, comprising a chain extender. Composition according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the number average particle size of the filler is chosen in the range of 10 to 50 000 nm, preferably 10 to 1 000 nm, more preferably 10 to 500 nm. Kit of parts suitable for use in an in vivo vessel repair, comprising a biocompatible polymer composition according to any of the claims 1-15, and a curing-catalyst composition. Kit according to claim 16, wherein the curing catalyst composition comprises at least one component selected from the group consisting of matrix pre-polymers, fillers and contrast agents. Kit according to claim 16 or 17, wherein the viscosity of the curing catalyst composition is at most 1 500 cSt higher or lower than the viscosity of the biocompatible polymer composition. Kit according to any of the claims 16-18, wherein the biocompatible polymer composition mixed with the curing catalyst composition, has a curing time of 5 min or less, preferably of less than 3 min. Use of a composition according to any of the claims 1-15, in the manufacture of a physiologically acceptable composition for the in vivo repair of an aneurysm, preferably an aortic aneurism. Use of a composition according to any of the claims 1-15, in the manufacture of a physiologically acceptable composition for prophylactic treatment of a bone, preferably a hip or a collarbone. Use of a composition according to any of the claims 1-15, in the manufacture of a physiologically acceptable composition for securing a stent or stent-graft in an artery. Cured material, obtainable by curing a composition according to any of the claims 1-15. <seperator>EP-1367685-A1<id_sep>sectionHsection groupH02J3slash00group classH02class subgroupH02J3slash14subgroup subclassH02Jsubclass subgroupH02J3slash12subgroup Electronic system for power consumption management of appliances An electronic system for power consumption management of one or more domestic appliances is routinely informed on actual energy tariff through a network control unit or through a predetermined time-table stored in the system. A user interface of the electronic system is provided where the user can set his preference concerning the switch-on time of each appliance and/or function thereof and read the related estimated energy consumption and/or energy cost of the appliance working program.  The present invention relates to an electronic system for power/energy consumption management of one or more domestic appliances, which is routinely informed on actual energy tariff through a network control unit. JP-A-2000214186 discloses a power consumption management apparatus for enterprise with an electronic unit that measures total amount of power consumed by electrical equipment. EP-A-1136829 discloses a process for measuring the energy consumption of a plurality of appliances connected to a power network in which each switching-on or switching-off of each appliance is detected through a specific high frequency signal injected in the network. DE-A-3935102 discloses a process for varying the load on a power system by injecting signals into the system using an audio frequency signal generator. Daily energy demand isn't flat; peaks of energy are generated during the day to follow the variable demand and increasing the utility company's charge. To avoid dangerous blackout the utility companies are searching ways to smooth the energy demand and offering advantages to customers able to control their power consumption. Consequently, a new generation of appliances is required that are able to manage power consumption with different tariffs on the base of signed power supply contract. The aim of the present invention is to implement a power management system to help the consumer in saving energy and money. Another object of the present invention is to make the user aware of potential energy cost savings in selecting different delayed switch-on times for each appliance. A further object of the present invention is to provide a system which comprises an user interface through which the user may also input a predetermined energy cost saving target referred to a certain fixed time (week, month), the system being able to select the proper times for switching-on the appliances in order to get the energy-savings target. The electronic system according to the invention is characterised by the features listed in the appended claims. Thanks to such features, the electronic system according to the invention may: The electronic system according to the present invention can be also able to interact with the utility company information centre (thorough power line or TLC) to routinely collect information about contract terms and restrictions like daily/weekly/monthly/seasonally tariffs, peak limit and/or penalty. In another embodiment the electronic system is able to negotiate with the utility company backend a possible reduction of energy consumption in front of unplanned lack of power. The electronic system according to the invention is preferably linked to so called "intelligent plugs" (i.e. plugs which can interrupt electrical supply to appliances on the basis of a specific signal on the power network) in agreement with priorities fixed by the user. The electronic system comprises the following hardware subsystems: The present invention will be described in details with reference to the appended drawings in which: With reference to figure 1, the power management algorithm which drives the electronic system according to the invention can have two main functionality identified by the user, an "on line" functionality and a "run time" functionality. Electronic system for power consumption management of one or more domestic appliances, which is informed on actual energy tariff through a network control unit or through a predetermined time-table, wherein a user interface is provided where the user can set his preference concerning the switch-on time of each appliance and/or function thereof and read the related estimated energy consumption and/or energy cost of the appliance working program. Electronic system according to claim 1, wherein the user interface further comprises inputting means for setting a predetermined energy cost saving target. Electronic system according to claim 2 wherein the energy cost saving target is displayed as money saved referred to a predetermined time. Electronic system according to any of the preceding claims, wherein it is able to control the total power consumption of the appliances by setting priorities or time planning among appliances according either to user preferences or to actual energy tariff pattern. Electronic system according to any of the preceding claims, wherein it is hosted in a specific device connected to the home network. Electronic system according to claim 1 or 2, wherein it is hosted in an appliance connected to the home network. Electronic system according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the user interface comprises a display which can show, when a selector key is activated by the user, the cost of running the working program of the appliance for a certain delay time, such selector key enabling a scroll among different costs at different delay times. Electronic system according to any of the preceding claims, wherein it is connected to a plurality of devices able to interrupt electrical supply to appliances according to priorities selected by the user through the user interface. Process for managing the power consumption of one or more domestic appliances, in which an electronic system is routinely informed on actual energy tariff through a network control unit or through a predetermined time-table, wherein it comprises the step of setting preferences concerning the switch-on time of each appliance and the step of getting information on the related energy consumption and/or energy cost. Process according to claim 8, wherein the elctronic system defines automatically energy consumption tresholds based either on actual tariff or on the contract with the utility company, and provides for the switching off of predetermined appliances or functions thereof when the actual energy consumption is higher than a predetermined treshold. Process according to claim 9, wherein predetermined appliances or function thereof are switched off when the actual energy consumption remains within two energy consumption tresholds for more than a predetermined time. Process according to any of claims 9-11, wherein the electronic system stops or pauses or starts power saving functionality of appliances according to priorities and targets selected through the user interface. Process according to any of claims 9-12, wherein the electronic system checks if the power level in the power network is sufficient for allowing the switching on of an appliance. Process according to any of claims 9-13, wherein the electronic system carries out a negotiation with the utility company to maximise the appliances performances relatively to the available energy. <seperator>EP-1759638-A1<id_sep>classA61class subgroupA61B17slash32subgroup groupA61B10slash00group sectionAsection subclassA61Bsubclass Core biopsy device A biopsy apparatus for the percutaneous removal of a specimen from a tissue mass, the biopsy apparatus comprising: an outer cannula (16) defining a lumen (76) and a longitudinal axis, the outer cannula (16) having a proximal end and a distal end; and an inner cannula (18) received within the lumen (76) of the outer cannula (16) and having a proximal end, the inner cannula (18) having a spoon portion (42) that terminates at the distal; wherein the outer cannula (16) and inner cannula (18) are operably configured such that upon the performance of a biopsy, the specimen is received within the lumen (76) and supported on the spoon portion (42), and relatively moving the cannulae (16, 18) exposes the specimen supported on the spoon portion (42) to permit the removal of the specimen from the spoon portion (42).  BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION  This application claims the benefit of  The invention relates to a core biopsy device for obtaining biopsy samples from tissue, and more particularly, to a core biopsy device having a rotatable excising finger for separating the core biopsy sample from the tissue.  It is frequently necessary to sample or remove a sample from a suspect tissue for testing. In humans, such a sample removal is particularly useful in the diagnosis and treatment of cancerous or pre-cancerous conditions. In the case of suspected cancer, particularly cancer of the breast, early detection and diagnosis is critical to the success of the patient's treatment and recovery. Various techniques are available to aid in detection and diagnosis, including physical examination and imaging, such as mammography, x-ray, ultrasound, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and the like. When a condition is detected that suggests the possibility of cancer, a biopsy can be performed to obtain tissue samples for a complete diagnosis. One biopsy technique frequently performed is a core biopsy, which uses a core biopsy device in which a cannula is inserted into the tissue of interest, thereby coring a biopsy sample from the tissue having a cross section similar to that of the cannula, and which is retained within the cannula. The cannula, with the biopsy sample, is then removed from the tissue, followed by cytological and/or histological analysis of the sample. One group of core biopsy devices is based on the combination of a notched inner stylet and an outer severing cannula. The stylet is retained within the lumen of the outer cannula such that the pointed end of the stylet closes off the open end of the cannula. The stylet and cannula are advanced into the tissue mass until they are near the desired biopsy site. The stylet is then advanced relative to the outer cannula to expose the notch to the biopsy site where the tissue prolapses into the notch. The outer cannula is then advanced to sever the tissue in the notch. The disadvantage of this method is that it produces a small core biopsy relative to the outer cannula size since the cross section of the sample is substantially equal to the cross section of the stylet notch, which is substantially smaller than the cross section of the outer cannula. The advantage of this method is that the sample is completely severed from the tissue mass and securely retained within the notch. Another group of core biopsy devices is based on a coring cannula in combination with a non-notched stylet. The stylet is used to plug the end of the coring cannula during the insertion of the coring cannula into the tissue adjacent the biopsy site. The coring cannula is then advanced relative to the stylet into the biopsy site to retain a sample within the coring cannula. The advantage of this device is that a full core biopsy sample is obtained. That is, the cross section of the sample is substantially equal to the cross section of the coring cannula. The full core sample provides a much larger sample which is highly advantageous. A biopsy apparatus for the percutaneous removal of a specimen from a tissue mass, the biopsy apparatus comprising:  The biopsy apparatus according to claim 1, and further comprising an excising finger (70) extending from the distal end of the outer cannula (16). The biopsy apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the excising finger (70) is adapted for resilient flexure. The biopsy apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the flexure of the excising finger (70) is alternately between a first position generally parallel to the longitudinal axis (58) of the inner cannula (18) and a second position toward the longitudinal axis (58) of the inner cannula (18). The biopsy apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the excising finger (70) is of a sufficient length that it extends at least to the longitudinal axis when in the second position. The biopsy apparatus according to any of the claims 1 to 5, and further comprising an actuator (12) operably coupled to the inner and outer cannulae (18, 16) for axially moving the outer cannula (16) relative to the inner cannula (18) from an inserting position to an excising position where the excising finger (70) extends towards a longitudinal axis (58) of the inner cannula (18) and a sample is received within the outer cannula (16), and then rotating the outer cannula (16) about the longitudinal axis (78) of the outer cannula (16) when the outer cannula is in the excising position to sever the sample from the tissue mass. The biopsy apparatus according to claim 6, wherein the actuator (12) simultaneously moves the outer cannula (16) and the inner cannula (18). The biopsy apparatus according to claim 6, wherein the actuator (12) sequentially moves the outer cannula (16) and the inner cannula (18). The biopsy apparatus according to claim 6, wherein the actuator (12), inner cannula (18), and outer cannula (16) collectively define an integrated self contained hand-holdable device that can be easily and conveniently handled by a user to effect operation of the biopsy apparatus. The biopsy apparatus according to claim 6, wherein the actuator (12) rotates the outer cannula (16) at least a partial revolution. The biopsy apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the actuator (12) rotates the outer cannula (16) for at least one revolution. The biopsy apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the outer cannula (16) is rotated at least 1½ revolution. The biopsy apparatus according to any of claims 1 to 12, wherein the spoon portion (42) comprises an arcuate cross section. The biopsy apparatus according to claim 13, wherein the arcuate cross section spans an arc of 180 degrees or less. The biopsy apparatus according to claim 13, wherein the arcuate cross section spans an arc of greater than 180 degrees. The biopsy apparatus according to claim 13, wherein the spoon portion (42) terminates in a sharpened edge. The biopsy apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the inner cannula (18) has an opening at the distal end and the excising finger (70) extends through the opening. The biopsy apparatus according to any of claims 1-17, and further comprising a stylet (20) received within the inner cannula (18) to substantially close off the inner cannula (18) prior to the taking of the sample. The biopsy apparatus according to any of claims 1 to 18, wherein the outer cannula (16) comprises a spoon portion (42) that terminates at the distal end for supporting a biopsy sample. <seperator>EP-1225199-A1<id_sep>subgroupB29C67slash20subgroup groupC08G101slash00group sectionBsection subgroupC08G18slash65subgroup subgroupC08G18slash48subgroup subclassC08Jsubclass groupA43B13slash00group classB29class groupC08J9slash00group subclassA43Bsubclass classA43class subgroupC08J9slash08subgroup subgroupC08G18slash79subgroup subgroupC08G18slash12subgroup groupC08G18slash00group subclassB29Csubclass subgroupA43B13slash38subgroup sectionCsection subgroupA43B13slash40subgroup subgroupC08J9slash12subgroup sectionAsection subclassC08Gsubclass classC08class Carbon dioxide blown low density, flexible microcellular elastomers suitable for preparing shoe components Microcellular polyurethane flexible foams suitable for use as lightweight shoe sole components are produced by dissolving carbon dioxide into one or both of the iso-side or resin-side of an isocyanate-prepolymer-based microcellular polyurethane foam formulation. The resultant foams possess more uniform cell structure and enhanced physical properties as compared to all water-blown foams of the same basic formulation and density. The hardness of the foams is more suitable for shoe sole, particularly midsole applications, than that of the water-blown foams, despite the lower urea hard segment content of the CO TECHNICAL FIELD The present invention pertains to low density, flexible microcellular elastomers suitable, BACKGROUND ART Cushioned soles for footware, particularly athletic footware are generally prepared from EVA (ethylenevinylacetate) microcellular foams. The processing of such foams is not straightforward, and the foams themselves do not have optimal properties. However, such foams continue to be used due to their availability in the very low density range, i.e., 0.1 g/cm Polyurethane polymers generally exhibit physical properties which are superior to EVA polymers. However, numerous difficulties arise when attempts are made to mold polyurethane microcellular foams at low densities. Due to the hardness required for the end use, considerable amounts of low molecular weight chain extenders are required. In prior microcellular foams which are water-blown, the urea short segments which are created cause the formulations to have poor processability, resulting in both shrinkage and splits in the parts. The physical properties are also comprised, particularly when the superior properties of otherwise similar noncellular polymers are considered. These problems have prevented use of low density (< 0.75 g/cm DISCLOSURE OF INVENTION It has been surprisingly discovered that low density, and particularly very low density, polyurethane flexible microcellular elastomers may be prepared if the major portion of the water blowing agent is replaced by dissolved CO BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS FIGURE 1 illustrates the cell structure of a water-blown microcellular foam. FIGURE 2 illustrates the more uniform cell structure achieved in polyurethane microcellular foams when carbon dioxide is introduced into at least one of the reactive components. BEST MODE FOR CARRYING OUT THE INVENTION The subject invention flexible microcellular foams have densities of about 0.75 g/cm Microcellular polyurethane foams are prepared by reaction of an isocyanate component and an isocyanate-reactive component. In addition, various surfactants, catalysts, stabilizers, pigments, fillers, etc., my be present. All the foregoing ingredients are well known to those skilled in the art of flexible microcellular polyurethane elastomers. A blowing agent must also be present. The CFC blowing agents used for many years have been superceded, and water has now become the principle blowing agent for such foams. However, in the present invention, dissolved carbon dioxide or both dissolved carbon dioxide and minor amounts of water are used as the blowing agent. The isocyanate component of the microcellular elastomer "system" or "formulation" generally comprises an isocyanate-terminated prepolymer in major part. Such prepolymers are well known, and are prepared by catalyzed or uncatalyzed reaction of a stoichiometric excess of di- or polyisocyanate such as 2,4-toluene diisocyanate (2,4-TDI), 4,4'-methylene diphenyl diisocyanate (4,4'-MDI), or modified MDI, with a polyol component. Other isocyanates can be used as well, including mixtures of isocyanates. The polyol component used in preparing the prepolymers ordinarily has a functionality of between 2.0 and 3.0, but may at times be greater or less. The isocyanate content, expressed as weight percent isocyanate groups, or " % NCO", may range from 3% to 24%, but is preferably in the range of 12% to 22%. The isocyanate content is most often 18-20% for shoe sole applications. A single prepolymer or a mixture of prepolymers may be used. In addition, the isocyanate component may comprise "monomeric" isocyanates such as the various TDI isomers, the various MDI isomers, and modified isocyanates such as urethane, urea, allophanate, and particularly, carbodiimide-modified isocyanates, e.g., Mondur® CD available from Bayer. All these isocyanates are well known, and can be used in mixtures as well. Aliphatic isocyanates such as isophorone diisocyanate can also be used, but are not preferred. Mixtures of prepolymers and "monomeric" isocyanates may also be used. The isocyanate content in such cases, or where monomeric isocyanates alone are used, may be higher than 24%. A process for the preparation of microcellular flexible polyurethane foam having a density of less than 0.75 g/cm3, comprising:  The process of claim 1, in which no water is added as a blowing agent. The process of claim 1, where at least one polyol is a low unsaturation polyether polyol with a molecular weight greater than 2000 Da and an unsaturation less than 0.020 meq/g. The process of claim 1, wherein all polyoxyalkylene polyols employed as polyols which have equivalent weights greater than about 1000 Da are low unsaturation polyols having an unsaturation less than 0.020 meq/g. The process of claim 1, wherein said microcellular foam has a density of less than 0.50 g/cm3 and a hardness of at least 60 on the Asker C scale. The process of claim 1, wherein said microcellular foam has a density of less than 0.35 g/cm3 and has a hardness of at least 20 on the Asker C scale. The process of claim 1 wherein greater than 50% by weight of the total weight of all polyols in component 2) are polyester polyols. The process of claim 7, wherein said microcellular foam has a density below 0.35 g/cm3 and a hardness on the Asker C scale of greater than 60. The process of claim 1 wherein all polyols employed are polyether polyols having an unsaturation of less than 0.010 meq/g. A flexible, low density polyurethane microcellular foam having a density below 0.75 g/cm3 and exhibiting a high cellular uniformity, prepared by reacting an isocyanate component and an isocyanate-reactive component in the presence of a urethane reaction-promoting catalyst and a cell stabilizing surfactant; wherein the cell structure of said microcellular foam is characterized by a uniform cell structure of cells having an average diameter of less than 200 µm; said cells filled with carbon dioxide gas, the major portion of which is not derived from an isocyanate/water blowing reaction, nor delivered at a mix head employed to mix said isocyanate component and said isocyanate-reactive component, but is derived from carbon dioxide dissolved in one or more of the isocyanate component or the isocyanate-reactive component. The microcellular foam of claim 10 wherein the average cell diameter is less than 100 µm. The microcellular foam of claim 10 which has a density of less than 0.50 g/cm3 and a hardness on the Asker C scale of greater than 60. The microcellular foam of claim 10 wherein said isocyanate-reactive component comprises at least one low unsaturation polyether polyol having an equivalent weight greater than 1000 Da and an unsaturation of less than 0.020 meq/g. The microcellular foam of claim 10 wherein polyether polyols are employed in said isocyanate-reactive component, and all polyether polyols have an unsaturation of less than 0.010 meq/g when the equivalent weight of said polyether polyol is higher than 1000 Da. The microcellular foam of claim 10 wherein said isocyanate-reactive component comprises at least one polymer polyol. The microcellular foam of claim 14 wherein said isocyanate-reactive component comprises at least one polymer polyol. The microcellular foam of claim 10 wherein said isocyanate-reactive component comprises a polyester polyol and the hardness of said microcellular foam is greater than 60 on the Asker C scale. A shoe sole component comprising the microcellular foam of claim 1. A shoe sole component comprising the microcellular foam of claim 10. A shoe sole component comprising the microcellular foam prepared by the process of claim 14. <seperator>EP-1284109-A2<id_sep>subgroupB29C70slash04subgroup classA43class subgroupA43C13slash14subgroup subclassA43Csubclass sectionBsection subgroupB29C70slash34subgroup subclassB29Dsubclass subgroupA43B23slash02subgroup subclassB29Csubclass groupA43B23slash00group subgroupB29D31slash50subgroup subgroupB29D31slash515subgroup subclassA43Bsubclass classB29class subgroupA43B23slash08subgroup sectionAsection groupA43C13slash00group Toe cap made of long fiber-reinforced thermoplastic resin for safety shoe and method for the production thereof A method for the production of a toe cap (2) for a safety shoe comprises placing a fibrous pellet material of a long fiber-reinforced thermoplastic resin in a pseudo-forming mold (11a), compressing the fibrous pellet material therein under application of heat to primarily form a pseudo-toe cap (1), setting the resultant pseudo-toe cap in position in a mold (11b) for forming a toe cap for a safety shoe, and applying pressure and heat to the pseudo-toe cap to compression mold a toe cap for a safety shoe. By this method, there is obtained the toe cap (2) made of a long fiber-reinforced thermoplastic resin in which the proportion of the content of reinforcing fibers in a skirt part (4) to that in a main body part is in the range of 70 to 100%.  BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to a toe cap or boxtoe which is used in safety foot wear such as shoes and boots for structurally reinforcing the toe of a shoe and enhancing the safety thereof and a method for the production thereof. As for toe caps of safety shoes, the great importance has heretofore been attached to the strength of the uppers of the shoes for protection of the wearer's toes against accidental heavy impact. Accordingly, the toe caps made of steel have been heretofore accepted for actual use. The safety shoes which use toe caps made of steel, however, entail the problem of handicapping the wearer's mobility by an inevitable increase of weight of the safety shoes owing to the use of steel as the material for the toe caps. For that reason, recently, toe caps made of a thermoplastic resin reinforced with reinforcing fibers such as glass fibers have been developed for the sake of decreasing the weights of safety shoes. Heretofore, the toe caps made of a reinforcing fiber-containing thermoplastic resin for safety shoes are produced by the sheet forming technique from a sheet material of reinforcing fiber-containing thermoplastic resin. Specifically, the sheet material of the reinforcing fiber-containing thermoplastic resin is cut into a trapezoidal shape corresponding to the toe cap and weighed. At this time, it is difficult to cut the sheet material into a fixed weight. Accordingly, for the sake of adjusting the weight of the cut sheet, generally a sheet piece of a suitable shape is applied to a suitable position of the sheet material and the resultant sheet material is heated by a far-infrared furnace, for example, for melting and softening the material. This sheet material 10 in the softened state is placed in a cavity 12 of a forming mold or tooling 11b, as shown in Fig. 1, and compression molded under application of pressure and heat by lowering a core 13 from the upper part, as shown in Fig. 4. Thereafter, such fabrication as deflashing is performed to produce the toe cap for a safety shoe. Incidentally, reference mark 15 denotes an ejector. When the sheet material is subjected to deep drawing by the sheet forming technique mentioned above, the sheet material has a portion elongated to a large extent. In the elongated portion, the reinforcing material is also elongated. This will cause such problems as the decrease of strength, particularly the relatively easy occurrence of cracks in the leading terminal central part of a skirt part, and further the following problems. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION An object of the present invention, therefore, is to provide a toe cap for a safety shoe which avoids such problems as mentioned above, enjoys light weight, exhibits uniform and high strength, and permits manufacture of a formed article incapable of suffering any variation in strength or any impairment of appearance. Another object of the present invention is to provide a method which is capable of producing a high strength toe cap for a safety shoe with a high yield and lower variation in the strength and permitting obviation of a conventional sheet cutting step, easy adoption of automatic weighing, reduction in the percentage of rejected products due to the miss-charging of a material into a mold or misregister, and improvement in moldability. A toe cap for a safety shoe, characterized in that it is made of a long fiber-reinforced thermoplastic resin, wherein the proportion of the content of reinforcing fibers in a skirt part to that in a main body part is in the range of 70 to 100%. The toe cap according to claim 1, wherein said toe cap has a wall thickness in the range of 2 to 6 mm. The toe cap according to claim 1 or 2, wherein a leading end of said toe cap has a wall thickness in the range of 3.5 to 6 mm. The toe cap according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein said reinforcing fiber is glass fiber and its content is in the range of 30 to 60% by volume in said main body part and 21 to 60% by volume in said skirt part. The toe cap according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the proportion of the content of reinforcing fibers in said skirt part to that in said main body part is in the range of 80 to 100%. A method for the production of a toe cap for a safety shoe, characterized by comprising placing a fibrous pellet material of a long fiber-reinforced thermoplastic resin in a pseudo-forming mold, compressing said fibrous pellet material therein under application of heat to primarily form a pseudo-toe cap, setting the resultant pseudo-toe cap in position in a mold for forming a toe cap for a safety shoe, and applying pressure and heat to said pseudo-toe cap to compression mold a toe cap for a safety shoe. The method according to claim 6, wherein said fibrous pellet material of long fiber-reinforced thermoplastic resin is plasticized by application of heat in said pseudo-forming mold to prepare the pseudo-toe cap having a curved portion. The method according to claim 6 or 7, wherein said primary forming of the pseudo-toe cap in the pseudo-forming mold is performed by application of pressure of 0.5 to 10 kg/cm2 and a temperature of 190 to 270°C and said compression molding in the mold for forming a toe cap for a safety shoe is performed by application of pressure of 300 to 800 kg/cm2 and a temperature of 70 to 160°C. The method according to any one of claims 6 to 8, wherein said fibrous pellet material of long fiber-reinforced thermoplastic resin has a diameter in the range of 0.2 to 5 mm and a length in the range of 7 to 55 mm. The method according to any one of claims 6 to 9, wherein said reinforcing fiber contained in said fibrous pellet material of long fiber-reinforced thermoplastic resin is glass fiber and its content is in the range of 30 to 60% by volume. <seperator>EP-1462383-A1<id_sep>subgroupB65D81slash26subgroup subgroupB65D65slash26subgroup sectionBsection subclassB65Dsubclass subgroupB65D33slash25subgroup classB65class subgroupB65D65slash22subgroup ATMOSPHERE IMPROVING TAPE FOR PACKAGE, PACKAGE WITH ATMOSPHERE IMPROVING TAPE AND METHOD OF MANUFACTURING THE PACKAGE AND PACKAGE CONTAINER WITH ATMOSPHERE IMPROVING TAPE The atmosphere improving tape 10 for a package comprising a rectangular atmosphere improving layer 10A in the inner side and a thermoplastic resin layer 10B surrounding the atmosphere improving layer in the outer side. The atmosphere improving layer 10A contains an atmosphere improving material such as an deoxidizing agent. With the present invention, miss use and injection miss of an atmosphere improving material never occur, and a packaging material can freely be selected with no load to the environment. The tape is excellent in the formability, and the atmosphere improving capability can easily be given to the tape.  Technical Field The present invention relates to an atmosphere improving tape for a package, a package with the atmosphere improving tape and a method of manufacturing the same, a packaging container with the atmosphere improving tape, an engaging device (a zipper), and a package with the engaging device (the zipper). Background Art In the conventional technology, a deoxidizer is sealed in a package to prevent oxidation of foods or drugs therein, and a drying agent is sealed in a package to prevent degradation of foods and drugs caused by absorption of moisture. An insect repellent is sealed in a package to prevent damages of clothing packaged therein by insects, and a preservative against mold is sealed therein to prevent mold. Further an antirust is sealed in a package to prevent generation of rust on metallic portions of industrial parts packaged therein. As described above, various types of atmosphere improving materials are used for preserving atmosphere in various types of packages. These atmosphere improving materials are generally sealed in a small bag in use. When a small bag with the atmosphere improving material packed therein is put in a package in which a product is packaged, however, unless the small bag is fixed within the package, the bag may be mixed in the product to generate the sense of discomfort. As a film for forming a package, there have been proposed a multi-layered oxygen-absorbing film comprising an oxygen-absorbing layer with a deoxidizer mixed therein and a layer comprising a thermoplastic resin (Japanese Patent Laid-Open Publication No. SHO 63-137838), a multi-layered damp-proof film comprising a drying agent layer with a drying agent mixed therein and a layer comprising other thermoplastic resin (Japanese Patent Laid-Open Publication No. HEI 5-39379), or the like. In the conventional technology as described above, the atmosphere improving layer such as the oxygen-absorbing layer or the drying agent layer is based on the configuration in which a deoxidizer or a drying agent is kneaded in a respective prespecified thermoplastic resin. Further as a film for forming a package, sometimes there has also been used a film prepared by extrusion molding a thermoplastic resin having the atmosphere improving characteristics such as the deoxidizing capability. When the film having the atmosphere improving characteristics as described above is processed, however, there occurs the disadvantageous problem that, for instance, it is difficult to adjust the fluidity of the resin for forming a film with large dimensions and there are many restrictions in selecting the atmosphere improving material. Also when the atmosphere improving film with a required material kneaded therein is processed, a resin for forming the atmosphere improving layer is simultaneously injection-molded together with other resin, so that sometimes an adhesion layer containing an adhesive enabling adhesion of the resin to the other one may be required. Therefore, when also a combination of the adhesive and the atmosphere improving material is taken into consideration, restrictions in selection of the atmosphere improving material disadvantageously increase. In addition, in the package using the film as described above, sometimes the atmosphere improving layer is exposed to outside of the package in a cross-sectional portion at an edge of the film. Because of the configuration, when this package is boiled or heated, the atmosphere improving material in the atmosphere improving layer may be eluded from the cross-sectional portion at the film edge to cause contamination around the package. An atmosphere improving tape for a package comprising an atmosphere improving layer containing an atmosphere improving material and a thermoplastic resin layer not containing an atmosphere improving material, wherein said atmosphere improving layer has a cross section coated with said thermoplastic resin layer. An atmosphere improving tape for a package comprising an atmosphere improving layer containing an atmosphere improving material and a thermoplastic resin layer not containing an atmosphere improving material, wherein said atmosphere improving layer has a cross section with said thermoplastic resin layer is laminated thereon. The atmosphere improving tape for a package according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the thermoplastic resin for said thermoplastic resin layer contains at least one of polyethylene telephthalate, polypropylene, polyethylene, and nylon. The atmosphere improving tape for a package according to any of claims 1 to 3, wherein said atmosphere improving layer comprises a material prepared by kneading an atmosphere improving material and a thermoplastic resin together. The atmosphere improving tape for a package according to any of claims 1 to 4, wherein said atmosphere improving material contains at least one of a water absorbing material, a drying agent, a volatile antibiotic agent, a volatile preservative against mold, a volatile antitick agent, a volatile insect repellent, an deodorizer, a volatile antirust agent, a volatile animal repelling agent, a deoxidizing agent, and an absorbent. A package with an atmosphere improving tape for blocking exposure of contents to air with a sheet adhered on a periphery thereof, wherein the atmosphere improving tape for a package according to any of claim 1 to claim 5 is continuously adhered thermally during the process of manufacturing the package with an atmosphere improving tape. The package with an atmosphere improving tape according to claim 6, wherein said atmosphere improving tape is thermally adhered to edge sections of the sheets opposite to each other so that the tape crosses the edge sections. The package with an atmosphere improving tape according to claim 6 or claim 7, wherein said thermoplastic resin layer has a cross section covering an edge face of said atmosphere improving layer. A method of manufacturing the package with an atmosphere improving tape comprising a tape adhering step of feeding a lengthy tape and thermally and continuously adhering an atmosphere improving tape comprising an atmosphere improving layer containing an atmosphere improving material and a thermoplastic resin layer not containing an atmosphere improving material from one edge section of the sheet to a surface on the side opposite to the surface with the thermoplastic resin layer and the sheet adhered to each other thereon. The method of manufacturing the package with an atmosphere improving tape according to claim 9 comprising:  A packaging container with an atmosphere improving tape comprising a molded container prepared by molding a multilayered sheet with a fissile surface layer formed on a periphery of the opening section, and a cover member thermally adhered to the molded container along the periphery of the opening section, wherein said cover member has the atmosphere improving tape for a package according to any of claims 1 to 5 adhered on an internal surface thereof and is adhered to said molded container via said atmosphere improving tape for a package, and the tape is separated together with the surface layer when said cover member is separated. The packaging container with an atmosphere improving tape according to claim 11, wherein said thermoplastic resin layer has a cross section covering an edge face of said atmosphere improving layer. A zipper comprising a male member and a female member engaging each other, wherein said male member and female member each has a belt-formed base section and an engagement section having an engaging function; and    wherein an atmosphere improving layer containing an atmosphere improving material is provided in said belt-formed base section and/or in said engagement section. The zipper according to claim 13, wherein said atmosphere improving layer is made from a material prepared by kneading an atmosphere improving material and a thermoplastic resin. The zipper according to claim 13 or claim 14, wherein said atmosphere improving material contains at least one of a water absorbing material, a drying agent, a volatile antibiotic agent, a volatile preservative against mold, a volatile antitick agent, a volatile insect repellent, a deodorant, a volatile antirust agent, a volatile animal repelling agent, a deoxidizing agent, and an absorbent. A package with a zipper having a sheet fused to a periphery thereof for blocking exposure of the contents to air, wherein the zipper according to any of claims 12 to 15 is thermally fused to an internal surface of said sheet. A package with an atmosphere improving tape comprising a main body there of formed by thermally adhering edge sections of sheets overlaid on each other for blocking exposure of the contents to air, and an atmosphere improving tape thermally adhered to an internal surface of this main body of the package for improving atmosphere inside said main body of the package,    wherein said atmosphere improving tape comprises an atmosphere improving layer containing an atmosphere improving material and a thermoplastic resin layer thermally adhered to an internal surface of said sheet, and this thermoplastic resin layer has a cross section covering said atmosphere improving layer, and    wherein further an edge section of said atmosphere improving tape in its extending section is buried in the thermally adhered sections of the sheets. The package with an atmosphere improving tape according to claim 17, wherein a notched section concaved more in the central portion than in the sideward edge section is formed in the edge section of said atmosphere improving tape in its extending section. The package with an atmosphere improving tape according to claim 18, wherein said notched section has a semi-circular form. The package with an atmosphere improving tape according to any of claims 17 to 19, wherein, in said atmosphere improving tape, the adhesion strength between said atmosphere improving layer and said thermoplastic resin layer is 500 g/ 15 mm in width or more. A method of manufacturing a packaging container with an atmosphere improving tape comprising formed by thermally adhering peripheral edge sections of sheets overlaid on each other for blocking exposure of contents to air, and an atmosphere improving tape thermally adhered to inside of the main body of this package for improving atmosphere inside the package, said method comprising:  <seperator>EP-1561827-A1<id_sep>sectionBsection subgroupB23K9slash23subgroup groupC21D7slash00group subclassC21Dsubclass groupB23K37slash00group sectionCsection subgroupC21D9slash50subgroup classC21class subgroupC21D7slash04subgroup subclassB23Ksubclass classB23class Method of welding a ferritic steel comprising a post weld heat treatment and cold working on the weld In a method according to the invention two steel components, which may be ferritic-martensitic or ferritic-bainitic, are welded together using a suitable filler material, a post weld heat treatment is performed at a temperature such that no significant softening of the steels occurs. Following the post weld heat treatment, the weld and heat affected zones are shot peened, rolled, or hammered. By this method a weld is achieved with reduced risk of mechanical deformation due to softening even at the most highly stressed location and reduced risk of fracture such as brittle or fatigue fracture. The method is applicable to a weld of similar or dissimilar steels.  The invention pertains to a method of welding similar and dissimilar ferritic-martensitic or ferritic-bainitic steel components, and in particular to a method of welding directed at reducing the effective tensile stress in the resulting weld and thereby increasing the lifetime of the welded component. When two ferritic-martensitic or ferritic-bainitic steel components are welded together, a heat affected zone results on each side adjacent to the molten weld pool. After completion of the weld the heat affected zone cools rapidly and the materials in these zones transform into martensite or bainite. While the martensite or bainite has a high hardness and strength, it has a poor toughness and impact energy, which results in an increased probability of brittle fracture of the welded components. In addition, residual tensile stresses are induced in the surface of the weld zone as it is the last zone to solidify and cool. In order to reduce the risk of brittle fracture, a post weld heat treatment is performed on the weld region at a temperature selected for a tempering of the martensite or bainite microstructure and precipitation of carbides. The tempering effects a reduction of the hardness and strength of the heat affected zone to levels closer to those of the material outside of the heat affected zone along with an increase in toughness, which reduces the risk of brittle fracture. Also, residual tensile stresses are reduced to a value below the yield strength at the post weld heat treatment temperature. However, the temperature of the post weld heat treatment required for a reduction of the residual stress level and hardness of some steels is so high that a softening of the (base) material occurs. The resulting strength of the softened (base) material may be insufficient for a component in operation and mechanical deformation and potential failure of the welded component can result. On the other hand, if a lower temperature for the post weld heat treatment is chosen in order to prevent a softening of the (base) material and assure a sufficient strength for safe operation of the component, then high hardness and residual tensile stresses may still remain. Residual tensile stresses further reduce the lifetime of a component that is exposed to additional stresses during its operation. Therefore, the temperature for the post weld heat treatment is selected in a compromise between the resulting strength and toughness of the materials (as a higher temperature causes too much of a decrease in strength and a lower temperature causes an insufficient increase in toughness). In the case of a weld of two dissimilar ferritic-martensitic or ferritic-bainitic steel components, the selection of a post weld heat treatment temperature is a compromise between the optimised temperature for the one steel and the optimised temperature for the other steel. However, a choice of a given temperature frequently leads to excessive residual tensile stresses in some part of the welded joint, in particular in the higher alloyed steel. To date, this problem is solved by a multi-stage process. First, the steel component that requires the higher post weld heat treatment (PWHT) temperature is prepared by the application of an overlay or butter weld of material, followed by a PWHT at a temperature appropriate for that steel. Second, the buttered material is welded to the second steel that requires a lower post weld heat treatment temperature using a filler metal that requires a PWHT temperature between the PWHT temperature of the buttered steel and that of the second steel. Finally, a PWHT is applied appropriate for the second steel. Since the PWHT temperature for the second steel is lower than that of the buttering layer, the PWHT results in only a small reduction of the hardness in this weld consisting of a first and second steel with buttering layer. Method of welding a first component (1) comprising a first ferritic-martensitic steel or ferritic-bainitic steel (M1) to a second component (2) comprising a second ferritic-martensitic steel or ferritic-bainitic steel (M2) using a filler material (W) whereby heat affected zones (HAZ) are formed in the first and the second component (1, 2) and a post weld heat treatment is performed on the weld, and there is a first characteristic temperature that effects a significant softening of the first steel (M1) as a result of the post weld heat treatment and there is second characteristic temperature that effects a significant softening of the second steel (M2) as a result of the post weld heat treatmentcharacterised in that the post weld heat treatment is performed at a temperature that is below the first and second characteristic temperature, and following the post weld heat treatment a cold working is performed on the weld. Method according to claim 1characterised in that that the cold working is a rolling, shot peening or hammering Method according to claim 1characterised in that the first steel (M1) and the second steel (M2) are same or similar and belong to a family of ferritic-martensitic steels, which have essentially the same characteristic temperature that effects a significant softening of the steels as a result of a post weld heat treatment, and the post weld heat treatment is performed at a temperature that is below the characteristic temperature for the steels of this family. Method according to claim 1characterised in that the first steel (M1) and the second steel (M2) are dissimilar and the first steel belongs to a first family of steels and the second steel belongs to a second family of steels, and where the steels of each family have essentially the same characteristic temperature that effects a significant softening of the steels as a result of a post weld heat treatment and the characteristic temperature of the steels of the first family is different from the characteristic temperature of the steels of the second family, and the post weld heat treatment is performed at a temperature that is below the characteristic temperature of the first and second steel (M1, M2) Method according to claim 2characterised in that the first steel (M1) and the second steel (M2) each belong to a family of steels each comprising approximately 1-3% Ni and approximately 2% Cr, and the post weld heat treatment is performed at a temperature of approximately 590°C, preferably within the range of 580 to 600°C Method according to claim 2characterised in that the first steel (M1) and the second steel (M2) each belong to a family of steels including 3.5% Ni-steels and 2.5-3.5% Ni steels alloyed with Vanadium and the post weld heat treatment is performed at a temperature of approximately 620°C, preferably within the range of 610 to 630°C. Method according to claim 2characterised in that the first steel (M1) and the second steel (M2) each belong to a family of steels including 8-13%Cr steels and 1-2%Cr steels alloyed with either V and Mo, or with V and W, or with Mo and V and W, and the post weld heat treatment is performed at a temperature of approximately 670°C, preferably within the range of 660 to 680°C. Method according to claim 3characterised in that the first steel (M1) belongs to a family of steels each comprising approximately 1-3 % Ni and approximately 2% Cr, and the second steel (M2) belongs to a family of steels including 3.5% Ni-steels and 2.5-3.5% Ni steels alloyed with V, and the post weld heat treatment is performed at a temperature of approximately 590°C, preferably within the range of 580 to 600°C. Method according to claim 3characterised in that the first steel (M1) belongs to a family of steels including 3.5% Ni-steels and 2.5-3.5% Ni steels alloyed with V, and the second steel (M2) belongs to a family of steels including 8-13%Cr steels and 1-2%Cr steels alloyed with either V and Mo, or with V and W, or with Mo and V and W, and the post weld heat treatment is performed at a temperature of approximately 620°C, preferably within the range of 610 to 630°C. Method according to claim 3characterised in that the first steel (M1) belongs to a family of steels each comprising comprising approximately 1-3 % Ni and approximately 2% Cr, and the second steel (M2) belongs to a family of steels including 8-13%Cr and 1-2%Cr steels alloyed with either V and Mo, or with V and W, or with Mo and V and W, and the post weld heat treatment is performed at a temperature of approximately 590°C, preferably within the range of 580 to 600°C. Method according to claim 1characterised in that the shot peening or rolling is performed over a spatial extent of at least 2 cm to each side of a maximum hardness location in the heat affected zone. Method according to one of the foregoing claimscharacterised in that the first and second components (1,2) are rotors or rotor parts. Method according to claim 1, 2 or 3characterised in that the first and second components (1,2) are components in steam power plants such as pipes connected to casings. <seperator>EP-1510201-A1<id_sep>subgroupA61K8slash30subgroup subgroupC11D3slash37subgroup subclassA61Ksubclass subgroupA61Q5slash02subgroup subgroupA61Q19slash10subgroup subgroupC11D1slash02subgroup subgroupA61K8slash81subgroup subgroupC11D1slash88subgroup classA61class subclassA61Qsubclass subgroupA61K8slash44subgroup subgroupC11D1slash94subgroup classC11class groupA61K8slash00group subgroupA61K8slash46subgroup subgroupA61K8slash72subgroup subgroupC11D1slash29subgroup subgroupC11D1slash06subgroup subclassC11Dsubclass subgroupC11D1slash14subgroup sectionCsection sectionAsection Mild and effective personal cleansing compositions containing hydrophobically modified crosslinked anionic acrylic copolymer and anionic surfactant A mild cleansing composition is disclosed. The composition includes a from about 4 percent to about 8.5 percent of an anionic surfactant; from about 1 percent to about 30 percent of an amphoteric surfactant; and from about 0.1 percent to less than about 3 percent of a hydrophobically modified, crosslinked, anionic acrylic copolymer, wherein the weight ratio of anionic surfactant to hydrophobically modified, crosslinked, anionic acrylic copolymer is about 3:1 to about 40:1. The composition is useful as shampoos, washes, baths, gels, lotions, creams, and the like. 1. Field Of The Invention The present invention relates to a cleansing composition, which is mild to the skin and/or eyes with appropriate cleansing and foaming performance. 2. Description Of The Prior Art Synthetic detergents, such as cationic, anionic, amphoteric, and non-ionic surfactants, are widely used in detergent and cleansing compositions. It is desirable that such compositions possess good foam volume and stability when used in, for example, shampoos. The amount of foam generated is directly related to the perceived efficiency with which it cleans the hair. In general, the greater the volume of foam produced and the greater the stability of the foam, the more efficient the perceived cleansing action of the shampoo. Anionic surfactants generally exhibit superior cleansing and foaming properties, and thus are incorporated into many personal cleansing compositions. However, these anionic surfactants tend to be very irritating to the skin and eyes in levels typically used, e.g., greater than about 10 weight percent. In order to produce more mild cleansing compositions, it is well-known to replace some of the anionic surfactant with other surfactants, such as nonionic and/or amphoteric surfactants. See, e.g. United States Patent No. 4,726,915. Another approach to producing mild cleansing compositions is to associate the anionic surfactants with amphoteric or cationic compounds in order to yield surfactant complexes. See, e.g., United States Patent Nos. 4,443,362; 4,726,915; 4,186,113; and 4,110,263. Disadvantageously, such mild cleansing compositions tend to suffer from poor foaming and cleansing performance. It is therefore, an object of this invention to provide effective cleansing compositions that exhibit good foaming properties without compromising the mildness and safety properties of the overall cleansing composition. The present invention relates to a personal cleansing composition comprising, consisting of, and/or consisting essentially of, based upon the total weight of the composition: Another embodiment of the present invention relates to a personal cleansing composition comprising, consisting of, and/or consisting essentially of, based upon the total weight of the composition: Another embodiment of the present invention relates to a personal cleansing composition comprising, consisting of, and/or consisting essentially of, based upon the total weight of the composition: Another embodiment of the present invention relates to a personal cleansing composition comprising, consisting of, and/or consisting essentially of, based upon the total weight of the composition: Another embodiment of the present invention relates to a method of reducing ocular sting in a detergent composition comprised, consisting of, and/or consisting essentially of, based upon the total weight of the composition, from about 4 percent to about 8.5 percent of an anionic surfactant and from about 1 percent to about 30 percent of an amphoteric surfactant, said method comprised, consisting of, and/or consisting essentially of: Another embodiment of the present invention relates to a method of reducing skin and/or eye irritancy in a detergent composition comprised, consisting of, and/or consisting essentially of, based upon the total weight of the composition, from about 0.1 percent to about 12.5 percent of an anionic surfactant, said method comprised, consisting of, and/or consisting essentially of: DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS As used herein, "copolymers" shall mean a polymer formed from two or more mer units and includes, but is not limited to terpolymers. A personal cleansing composition comprising, based upon the total weight of the composition:  The composition of claim 1, wherein the weight ratio of component a) to component b) is 3:1 to 20:1. The composition of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the anionic surfactant is an alkyl sulfate, alkyl ether sulfate, sulfosuccinate, isethionate, acyl amide, alkyl ether carboxylate, alkyl phosphate or a mixture thereof. The composition of claim 3, wherein the anionic surfactant is comprised of at least one of an alkyl ether sulfate or an alkyl ether carboxylate. The composition of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the hydrophobically modified, crosslinked, anionic acrylic copolymer is comprised of at least one acidic monomer and at least one hydrophobic ethylenically unsaturated monomer. The composition of claim 5, wherein the at least one acidic monomer is an ethylenically unsaturated acid monomer capable of neutralization with a base, and the at least one hydrophobic ethylenically unsaturated monomer is comprised of a hydrophobic carbon chain having at least three carbon atoms. The composition of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the hydrophobically modified, crosslinked, anionic acrylic copolymer is a composition derived from at least one unsaturated carboxylic acid monomer; at least one hydrophobic monomer; a hydrophobic chain transfer agent comprising an alkyl mercaptan, thioester, amino acid-mercaptan-containing compound, peptide fragment or a combination thereof; a cross-linking agent; and, optionally, a steric stabilizer; wherein the amount of said unsaturated carboxylic acid monomer is from 60% to 98% by weight based upon the total weight of said unsaturated monomers and said hydrophobic monomer. The composition of any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein the amphoteric surfactant is in an amount, based upon the total weight of the composition, from 2 percent to 15 percent. The composition of any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the weight ratio of the anionic surfactant: amphoteric surfactant is from 1:0.8 to 1:4. The composition of any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the amphoteric surfactant is an alkylimino-diproprionate, alkylamphoglycinate (mono or di), alkylamphoproprionate (mono or di), alkylamphoacetate (mono or di), N-alkyl β-aminoproprionic acid, alkylpolyamino carboxylate, phosphorylated imidazoline, alkyl betaine, alkylamido betaine, alkyl sultaine, alkylamido sultaine or a mixture thereof. The composition of any one of claims 1 to 10, further comprising a nonionic surfactant which is a fatty alcohol acid ethoxylate, fatty alcohol amide ethoxylate, monoglyceride ethoxylate, sorbitan ester ethoxylate, alkyl polyglycoside or a mixture thereof. The composition of claim 11, wherein the nonionic surfactant is a sorbitan ester ethoxylate. A personal cleansing composition comprising, based upon the total weight of the composition:  The composition of claim 1 or claim 13, wherein the hydrophobically modified, crosslinked, anionic acrylic copolymer is a carbomer available under the tradename, "Carbopol Aqua SF-1." The composition of claim 13 or claim 14, wherein the weight ratio of the anionic surfactant: amphoteric surfactant is from 1:1 to 1:2. A method of reducing ocular sting in a detergent composition comprised of, based upon the total weight of the composition, from 4 percent to 8.5 percent of an anionic surfactant and from 1 percent to 30 percent of an amphoteric surfactant, said method comprised of:  The method of claim 16, wherein the hydrophobically modified, crosslinked, anionic acrylic copolymer is as defined in any one of claims 5, 6 and 8. <seperator>EP-1703529-A2<id_sep>sectionHsection subclassH01Hsubclass subgroupH01H37slash76subgroup classH01class groupH01H37slash00group Thermal fuse employing thermosensitive pellet There is provided a thermal fuse employing a thermosensitive pellet providing an operating temperature with limited variation, and operating with high precision and hence highly reliably. To achieve this, the thermal fuse employing the thermosensitive pellet includes a switching function member including a thermosensitive pellet (10), a movable conductor (20), and a spring member (24, 26). At a prescribed operating temperature the thermosensitive pellet (10) softens or melts to liberate the spring member (24, 26) from a load to cause the spring member (24, 26) to move the movable conductor (20) to switch an electrical circuit located between the first and second lead members (14 and 16). The thermosensitive pellet (10) is formed of a thermosensitive material selected depending on a characteristic in flowability presented as it softens or melts.  The present invention relates generally to thermal fuses employing a thermosensitive pellet exploiting a characteristic in flowability of a thermosensitive material thermally deforming at increased temperature to allow the fuse to operate precisely at a temperature, and particularly to thermal fuses employing a thermosensitive pellet using a thermosensitive material composed of a thermoplastic resin exhibiting a characteristic in flowability when it is softened or melted. Thermal fuses are generally divided into two types depending on the thermosensitive material used. One is a thermal fuse employing a thermosensitive pellet using non-conductive thermosensitive material, and the other is a thermal fuse employing a low melting point fusible alloy of conductive thermosensitive material. They are both a so-called non-reset thermal switch. When its surrounding temperature increases and a prescribed temperature is reached, the fuse operates to cut off or electrically connect a current carrying path of equipment and an apparatus to protect them. The fuse operates at a temperature determined by the thermosensitive material used. Typically, it is offered commercially in products operating at a temperature ranging from 60°C to 240°C on a rated current ranging from 0.5A to 15A and acts as an electrical protection component allowing an initial conducting or interrupt state for initial ordinary temperature to be inverted at a predetermined operating temperature to provide an interrupt or conducting state. Of the above thermal fuses, the thermal fuse employing a thermosensitive pellet is composed of a casing having opposite ends with a lead member attached thereto, and a pellet of non-conductive thermosensitive material, a compression spring and a movable conductor accommodated in the casing. When a prescribed operating temperature is attained and the pellet softens or melts, the compression spring pushes and presses and thus acts on the movable conductor to move it to change an conducting or interrupt state or vice versa. The thermosensitive pellet is typically formed of a chemical agent having a prescribed melting point and formed into a prescribed geometry, granulated, made into a tablet and thus pelletized. The thermal fuse employing a thermosensitive pellet generally employs a thermosensitive material composed of a single organic chemical compound having a known melting point, and to make it a thermosensitive pellet, binder, lubricant, pigment and the like are added to enhance granulability, provide uniform density and classify the type of the thermosensitive pellet, respectively, and the thus obtained medium is pelletized. The single organic compound includes 4-methylumbelliferone, a pure chemical agent, as disclosed for example in For thermal fuses employing a thermosensitive pellet when a thermosensitive material is selected, the thermosensitive material is required to be readily pelletized and provide a significantly precise and steady operating temperature. For example, if a chemical agent is used as the thermosensitive material, the thermosensitive pellet at a high temperature close to its melting point reduces through sublimation, and in storage or use at high humidity melts and reduces through deliquescence. Either case can cause the thermal fuse to erroneously operate or cut off, failing to ensure steady operating temperature. Furthermore, the thermal fuse employing the thermosensitive pellet is affected by its environment and furthermore, as it is produced in a process for shaping powdery material, it is not strong and thus tends to crack or chip or have a similar defect. As such, it is thermally, physically and chemically insufficiently stable, and there is a demand for a thermosensitive material satisfactorily addressing such disadvantages, and improvement of its characteristics. A thermal fuse employing a thermosensitive pellet, comprising: a first lead member (14) fixed at one opening of a metallic, cylindrical casing (12) via an insulated bushing (17), a second lead member (16) crimped and thus fixed at the other opening of said casing (12), and a switching function member accommodated in said casing (12), said switching function member including a thermosensitive pellet (10), a movable conductor (20) engaged with said thermosensitive pellet (10), and a spring member (24, 26) pressing said movable conductor (20), at a prescribed operating temperature said thermosensitive pellet (10) softening or melting to liberate said spring member (24, 26) from a load to cause said spring member (24, 26) to move said movable conductor (20) to switch an electrical circuit located between said first and second lead members (14 and 16), wherein said thermosensitive pellet (10) is formed of a thermosensitive material selected depending on a characteristic in flowability presented as said thermosensitive material softens or melts. The thermal fuse according to claim 1, wherein said thermosensitive material is a thermoplastic resin having a characteristic in flowability of at least 0.5g/10 min., as represented in melt flow rate. The thermal fuse according to claim 2, wherein said operating temperature is set between an extrapolated initial melting temperature and an extrapolated ending melting temperature of said thermoplastic resin and adjusted by force exerted by said spring member (24, 26). The thermal fuse according to claim 2, wherein said thermoplastic resin is polyolefin having a degree of crystallinity of at least 20%. A thermal fuse employing a thermosensitive pellet, comprising:  The thermal fuse according to claim 5, wherein said movable conductor (20) has a contact contacting and detaching from said first electrode (15) and a contact normally slidably contacting said second electrode (12a) and said spring member (24, 26) includes a weak compression spring (26) and a strong compression spring (26) with said movable conductor (20) posed therebetween, said strong compression spring (24) being opposite said movable conductor (20) and said thermosensitive pellet (10) with respective pressure plates (28, 29) posed therebetween. <seperator>EP-1424100-A1<id_sep>subgroupA61B17slash22subgroup groupA61B18slash00group groupA61M25slash00group classA61class subclassA61Msubclass groupA61N7slash00group subgroupA61N7slash02subgroup subclassA61Nsubclass groupA61B17slash00group sectionAsection subclassA61Bsubclass Apparatus for electrically isolating a cardiac chamber using ultrasound A catheter introduction apparatus provides an ultrasound assembly (26) for emission of ultrasound energy. In one application the catheter (10) and the ultrasound assembly are introduced percutaneously, and transseptally advanced to the ostium of a pulmonary vein. An anchoring balloon (22) is expanded to center an acoustic lens in the lumen of the pulmonary vein, such that energy is converged circumferentially onto the wall of the pulmonary vein when a transducer is energized. A circumferential ablation lesion is produced in the myocardial sleeve of the pulmonary vein, which effectively blocks electrical propagation between the pulmonary vein and the left atrium.  BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Field of the Invention This invention relates to methods and apparatus for the medical treatment of disease of the heart. More particularly, this invention relates to a method and apparatus for treating cardiac arrhythmias by ablating in a vicinity of pulmonary venous tissue. Description of the Related Art Tissue ablation from the inner walls of hollow viscera of the body generally, and the vascular system in particular, has been found to be useful in the treatment of various medical conditions. Technological developments in intravascular catheters, manipulative instruments adapted to intravascular catheters, and catheter localization techniques have especially benefited the field of cardiology. Percutaneous transcatheter ablation has been used successfully in the treatment of conduction defects and arrhythmias of various types. Today, atrial tachyarrhythmias are a common application for ablative therapy. Various ablative modalities have been employed in the past, such as ablation by direct heating. Energy can be conducted to the target tissue using various modalities, such as ultrasound, laser, resistive heating, and radiofrequency energy. One ablative approach is the so-called "maze" technique. In general, the maze procedure attempts to block abnormal conduction patterns in the left atrium by establishing a maze-like pattern of linear lesions in the left atrial wall. Atrial arrhythmias are known to be associated with abnormal electrical activity of tissue foci in the vicinity of the pulmonary veins, especially the superior pulmonary veins. Various ablative treatments of such foci have been attempted. For example, the production of linear atrial lesions by radiofrequency ablation, in combination with ablation of suspected arrhythmogenic foci has been performed using transcatheter techniques. More recently, circumferential lesions at or near the ostia of the pulmonary veins have been created to treat atrial arrhythmias. U.S. Patent Nos. 6,012,457 and 6,024,740, both to Lesh, disclose a radially expandable ablation device, which includes a radiofrequency electrode. Using this device, it is proposed to deliver radiofrequency energy to the pulmonary veins in order to establish a circumferential conduction block, thereby electrically isolating the pulmonary veins from the left atrium. Radiofrequency ablation using multiple contiguous circumferential points, guided by electro-anatomical mapping is proposed in the document, It has also been proposed to produce circumferential ablative lesions using ultrasound energy delivered via a cylindrical ultrasound transducer through a saline-filled balloon. This technique is described in the document, U.S. Patent No. 6,117,101 to Diederich et al. discloses a technique for producing circumferential lesions for electrical isolation of the pulmonary veins. Using a balloon catheter, a cylindrical ultrasound transducer is provided on an inner member within a balloon, and emits a radial ultrasound signal that is sonically coupled to the balloon's outer skin. A known drawback in the use of ultrasound energy for cardiac tissue ablation is the difficulty in controlling the local heating of tissue. There are tradeoffs between the clinical desire to create a sufficiently large lesion to effectively ablate an abnormal tissue focus, or block an aberrant conduction pattern, and the undesirable effects of excessive local heating. If the ultrasound device creates too small a lesion, then the medical procedure could be less effective, or could require too much time. On the other hand, if tissues are heated excessively then there could be local charring effects due to overheating. Such overheated areas can develop high impedance, and may form a functional barrier to the passage of heat. The use of slower heating provides better control of the ablation, but unduly prolongs the procedure. An apparatus for electrically isolating a cardiac chamber, comprising:  The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein a body section of said ultrasound transducer assembly has a proximal cross section and a distal cross section, said proximal cross section being larger than said distal cross section. The apparatus according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein said ultrasound transducer assembly comprises an omnidirectional lens that focuses a beam of said ultrasound energy circumferentially on said ablation region. An apparatus for electrically isolating a cardiac chamber, comprising:  The apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein said body section is a truncated cone. The apparatus according to claim 5, wherein an inclination angle of said truncated cone is about 20 degrees. The apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 6, further comprising a sensor disposed in said catheter for detecting cardiac electrical activity. The apparatus according to claim 7, further comprising a transmitting antenna disposed in said catheter for transmitting signals from said sensor. The apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein said anchor comprises a balloon. The apparatus according to claim 3 or claim 4 or any claim dependent thereon, wherein said ultrasound transducer assembly comprises an array of transducer elements, and a control unit for controlling individual ones of said transducer elements to shape said beam. The apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein in an operational position said ultrasound transducer assembly is spaced apart from said ablation region. The apparatus according to any one of claims q to 11, wherein said ultrasound transducer assembly operates at a frequency of between 3 and 4 MHz. The apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein said ultrasound transducer assembly comprises:  The apparatus according to claim 13, wherein said diffraction grating is a thin-film disposed on an external surface of said catheter. The apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 14, wherein said ultrasound transducer assembly has a bandwidth that is between 50% and 80% of a primary operating frequency thereof. The apparatus of any one of claims 1 to 15 for use in a method for electrically isolating a left atrium of a heart from a pulmonary vein, the method comprising the steps of:  <seperator>EP-1347603-A1<id_sep>subgroupH04L12slash56subgroup classH04class subclassH04Lsubclass sectionHsection Simple admission control for IP based networks A simple admission control mechanism for IP based networks is provided. The decision on whether a new flow is accepted is based on the link load information on the paths from the source to destination. The new flow is accepted when the link load is less than a threshold. When at least one of the links on all of the available paths is larger than the acceptable threshold, access is denied to the flow. More than one threshold level may be used. Under the multiple threshold scenario, the traffic may be divided into different classes. The admission control mechanism helps to ensure a network that is not heavily congested.  The present invention relates to IP networks, and more particularly to an admission control mechanism for IP networks. The development of mobile communication devices and mobile networks has advanced at a rapid rate. At first, analog mobile networks enabled voice communication and simple paging features. Later, digital mobile networks provided more advanced features for voice and data communication, such as encryption, caller identification and short message service (SMS) text messages. More recently, third generation (3G) mobile IP network technology is being developed to enable users to easily access content rich media, information and entertainment with mobile devices. As mobile devices and mobile networks have advanced, and more data has become available to the users, the demand on the networks has continued to increase. The increase in demand can cause a network to become heavily congested. One way that has been used to attempt to alleviate congestion on a network is to add more bandwidth. This approach, however, has many drawbacks. Adding more bandwidth is expensive and does not ensure that a network will not become congested. Eventually, all of the available bandwidth will be utilized from the increased demand. What is needed is a way to simply determine when a new flow should be accepted into the network in order to avoid congestion. It is with respect to these considerations and others that the present invention has been made. The present invention is directed at addressing the above-mentioned shortcomings, disadvantages and problems, and will be understood by reading and studying the following specification. According to one aspect of the invention, a simple admission control mechanism is directed at determining when a new flow is accepted into an IP based network. According to yet another aspect of the invention, the decision whether to accept a new flow is based on the path congestion for the available paths from the source of the new flow to the destination of the new flow. Each link load within the paths is calculated to determine path congestion. The link load may be real time load for real time traffic, total load for other traffic, and the like. The link load may be any subset of the total load that is based on the number of bytes dequeued from certain DiffServ router output queues for any traffic class. For example, real time load for Expedited Forwarding (EF) traffic, which is mapped to highest priority queue, may be considered to be congested when the threshold is larger than 0.8*link bandwidth. Other traffic thresholds may be set at higher thresholds, e.g. threshold = 0.95*link bandwidth. When all of the paths are congested, the new flow is not accepted. When at least one of the paths is not congested, the new flow is accepted. According to yet another aspect of the invention, the link load is determined by an exponential averaging equation. A configurable weighting factor may be set depending on how fast the operator desires to react to changes in link loads at each node within the network. A measurement period factor may be set for the period the link load is measured. A method for an admission control mechanism for an IP based network, comprising:  The method of claim 1, wherein determining when the path is congested further comprises comparing each link load to a predetermined threshold to determine when the path is congested. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the link load is represented by an exponential averaging equation. The method of any preceding claim, wherein the network comprises a radio access network (RAN). The method of any preceding claim, wherein calculating the link load for each link within the path from the source to the destination, further comprises:  The method of any preceding claim, further comprising employing a bandwidth broker to determine when the link within the path is congested. The method of claim 3 or any claim dependent on claim 3, further comprising employing a bandwidth broker to determine, according to the link load information received from the network nodes, when the link within the path is congested. The method of claim 3 or any claim dependent on claim 3, wherein the exponential averaging equation is: link loadi = (1 - w)*link loadi-1 + w*(8*bytes per periodi/(p*link capacity)), wherein link capacity is bits per second. An apparatus for an admission control mechanism for an IP based network, comprising:  The apparatus of claim 9, wherein determining when the link is congested further comprises comparing the link load to a predetermined threshold. The apparatus of claim 9 or 10, wherein the link load is represented by an exponential averaging equation. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the exponential averaging equation is: link loadi = (1 - w)*link loadi-1 + w*(8*bytes per periodi/(p*link capacity)). The apparatus of any of claims 9 to 12, wherein the IP based network comprises a radio access network (RAN). A system for an admission control mechanism for an IP based network, comprising:  The system of claim 14, wherein the IP based network comprises a radio access network (RAN). The system of claim 14 or 15, wherein updating the path information relating to the received link load, further comprises determining when the path is congested; and when the path is congested, rejecting a flow; otherwise accepting the flow. The system of claim 16, wherein determining when the path is congested further comprises comparing the link load to a predetermined threshold. The system of any of claims 14 to 17, wherein each of the link loads is represented by its respective node and is calculated by an exponential averaging equation. The system of claim 18, wherein the exponential averaging equation is: link loadi = (1 - w)*link loadi-1 + w*(8*bytes per periodi/(p*link capacity)). An apparatus for an admission control mechanism for ain IP based network, comprising: <seperator>EP-1596424-A1<id_sep>subgroupG03F7slash20subgroup subclassG03Fsubclass groupC03B20slash00group groupG02B1slash00group classC03class sectionGsection subclassG02Bsubclass subclassC03Bsubclass sectionCsection classG03class classG02class EXPOSURE APPARATUS AND OPTICAL MEMBER FOR EXPOSURE APPARATUS In an exposure apparatus, an exposure object 15 is exposed to light by applying pulsed light that has a wavelength of 300 nm or less and that has been passed through a plurality of optical components 2, 4a, 4b, 6, 7, 9, and 12. At least one of the plurality of optical components 2, 4a, 4b, 6, 7, 9, and 12 is made of a synthetic silica glass component. The thickness of the synthetic silica glass component, and the energy density per pulse and the pulse width of the pulsed light satisfy the following expression:  Technical Field The present invention relates to an optical component such as a lens or a mirror used in a specific waveband at or below 300 nm in excimer laser lithography technology, and to an exposure apparatus using the same. Background Art For the transfer of patterns of integrated circuits such as ICs and LSIs, a reduction projection aligner or a photolithography apparatus is mainly used. With the enhancement of integration degrees of integrated circuits, a wide exposure area and a high resolution over the entire exposure area are required for a projection optical system used in such an apparatus. In order to further improve the resolution of the projection optical system, it can be considered to further reduce the exposure wavelength or increase the numerical aperture (NA) of the projection optical system. At present, KrF (248 nm) excimer lasers are mainly used as light sources of exposure apparatuses. In order to further improve the resolution, ArF excimer lasers, which are deep ultraviolet rays having shorter wavelength, have been developed. With knowledge in known excimer laser lithography technology, damages of optical components are mostly classified broadly into three types. The first type is a reduction in internal transmittance caused by the generation of internal defects (see Japanese Patent Application Laid-Open Gazette No. Hei 8-259255). The second type is a refractive index change associated with a volume change such as compaction or expansion (see International Application National-Phase Publication No. 2000-517284). The third type is a surface state change such as the destruction or contamination of an optical thin film (see Japanese Patent Application Laid-Open Gazette Nos. 2002-14202 and Hei 11-52102). However, damage which does not belong to any of them has been recently reported and attracted interest (see E. M. Wright et al., "Spatial pattern microchannel formation in silica glass irradiated by nanosecond ultraviolet pulses", Applied Optics, 1999, Vol. 38, p.5785-5788). This is the microchannel phenomenon in which holes having diameters of several µm are formed from a surface of an optical component to the inside thereof. It is expected that the occurrence of this phenomenon causes a reduction in the transmittance of the optical component resulting from scattering and the destruction of an optical thin film, and significantly reduces transmittance characteristics of the optical component. However, there are few reports on the microchannel phenomenon, and sufficient knowledge has not been obtained yet. It has been known that this microchannel phenomenon has the following characteristics: This microchannel phenomenon occurs due to extremely long continuous irradiation homogeneous at low energy densities in a practical range under normal use conditions of an exposure apparatus. Accordingly, it is necessary to take prevention measures against mechanical damage resulting from this phenomenon. Disclosure of the Invention The occurrence of this microchannel phenomenon causes a significant reduction in transmittance characteristics of an optical component, and also causes the occurrence of unnecessary scattering light. Thus, it is expected that the image-forming performance, stability, and life of an exposure apparatus deteriorate. Nevertheless, the cause of the generation of microchannels is not clear, and prevention measures against it have not been known. Accordingly, an object of the present invention is to provide an optical component and an exposure apparatus in which the generation of microchannels can be reduced. An exposure apparatus which comprises a light source emitting pulsed light having a wavelength of 300 nm or less and which exposes an exposure object to light by applying the pulsed light passed through a plurality of optical components,    wherein at least one of the plurality of optical components is a synthetic silica glass component; and a thickness of the synthetic silica glass component, an energy density per pulse of pulsed light applied to the synthetic silica glass component, and a pulse width of the pulsed light satisfy the following expression (1): τI-2L-1.7≥0.02 (ns·mJ-2·cm2.3·pulse2) (In expression (1), L is the thickness (unit: cm) of the synthetic silica glass component, I is the energy density (unit: mJ·cm-2·pulse-1) per pulse of the pulsed light applied to the synthetic silica glass component, and τ is the pulse width (unit: ns) of the pulsed light.) The exposure apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the wavelength of the pulsed light is 200 nm or less; and the thickness of the synthetic silica glass component, the energy density per pulse of the pulsed light applied to the synthetic silica glass component, and the pulse width of the pulsed light satisfy the following expression (2): τI-2L-1.7≥25 (ns·mJ-2·cm2.3·pulse2) (In expression (2), L is the thickness (unit: cm) of the synthetic silica glass component, I is the energy density (unit: mJ·cm-2·pulse-1) per pulse of the pulsed light applied to the synthetic silica glass component, and τ is the pulse width (unit: ns) of the pulsed light.) The exposure apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the number of synthetic silica glass components satisfying expression (1) is half or more of the total number of synthetic silica glass components among the plurality of optical components. The exposure apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the number of synthetic silica glass components satisfying expression (2) is half or more of the total number of synthetic silica glass components among the plurality of optical components. The exposure apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the light source emits pulsed ultraviolet light having a wavelength of 300 nm or less, at least one of the plurality of optical components is a synthetic silica glass component, and optical components placed closer to the light source compared to the synthetic silica glass component are classified into any one of striae grades 1 to 3 in an evaluation according to Japanese Optical Glass Industrial Standards (JOGIS) 11-1975. The exposure apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the light source emits pulsed ultraviolet light having a wavelength of 300 nm or less, at least one of the plurality of optical components is a synthetic silica glass component, and sizes of foreign substances and bubbles contained in optical components placed closer to the light source compared to the synthetic silica glass component are 1 µm or less. The exposure apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the light source emits pulsed ultraviolet light having a wavelength of 300 nm or less; at least one of the plurality of optical components is a synthetic silica glass component; and, in ultraviolet light applied to the synthetic silica glass component, a width between adjacent top portions of energy density inhomogeneity in a plane perpendicular to an optical axis is larger than 0.1 mm, and a difference between a top portion and a bottom portion of the energy density is 5% or less of an average energy density. The exposure apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising: a homogenizer reducing energy density inhomogeneity of the ultraviolet light in a plane perpendicular to an optical axis,    wherein the light source emits pulsed ultraviolet light having a wavelength of 300 nm or less, at least one of the plurality of optical components is a synthetic silica glass component, and all the synthetic silica glass component is placed closer to the exposure object than the homogenizer placed closest to the light source is. An exposure apparatus which comprises a light source emitting pulsed light having a wavelength of 300 nm or less and which exposes an exposure object to light by applying the pulsed light passed through a plurality of optical components,    wherein among the plurality of optical components, components to which pulsed light having an energy density of 1 mJ·cm-2·pulse-1 or more per pulse is applied are made of at least one selected from the group consisting of a quartz single crystal, an aluminum oxide single crystal, a calcium fluoride single crystal, a magnesium fluoride single crystal, and anhydrous silica glass doped with fluorine. The exposure apparatus according to claim 9, wherein an amount of a refractive index change of the anhydrous silica glass doped with fluorine, the amount being measured at a wavelength of 633 nm, is 3 ppm or less after application of 1×10 pulses of ArF excimer laser light having an energy density of 30 mJ·cm-2·pulse-1 or more per pulse. An exposure apparatus which comprises a light source emitting ultraviolet light having a wavelength of 300 nm or less and which exposes an exposure object to light by applying the ultraviolet light passed through a plurality of optical components,    wherein at least one of the plurality of optical components is a synthetic silica glass component, and optical components placed closer to the light source compared to the synthetic silica glass component are classified into any one of striae grades 1 to 3 in an evaluation according to Japanese Optical Glass Industrial Standards (JOGIS) 11-1975. An exposure apparatus which comprises a light source emitting ultraviolet light having a wavelength of 300 nm or less and which exposes an exposure object to light by applying the ultraviolet light passed through a plurality of optical components,    wherein at least one of the plurality of optical components is a synthetic silica glass component, and sizes of foreign substances and bubbles contained in optical components placed closer to the light source compared to the synthetic silica glass component are 1 µm or less. An exposure apparatus which comprises a light source emitting ultraviolet light having a wavelength of 300 nm or less and which exposes an exposure object to light by applying the ultraviolet light passed through a plurality of optical components,    wherein at least one of the plurality of optical components is a synthetic silica glass component; and, in ultraviolet light applied to the synthetic silica glass component, a width between adjacent top portions of energy density inhomogeneity in a plane perpendicular to an optical axis is larger than 0.1 mm, and a difference between a top portion and a bottom portion of the energy density is 5% or less of an average energy density. An exposure apparatus which comprises: a light source emitting ultraviolet light having a wavelength of 300 nm or less; and a homogenizer reducing energy density inhomogeneity of the ultraviolet light in a plane perpendicular to an optical axis, and which exposes an exposure object by applying the ultraviolet light passed through a plurality of optical components,    wherein at least one of the plurality of optical components is a synthetic silica glass component, and all the synthetic silica glass component is placed closer to the exposure object than the homogenizer placed closest to the light source is. A synthetic silica glass component for exposure apparatus used in an optical system of an exposure apparatus which exposes an exposure object to pulsed light having a wavelength of 300 nm or less,    wherein a thickness of the synthetic silica glass component, an energy density per pulse of the pulsed light applied to the synthetic silica glass component, and a pulse width of the pulsed light satisfy the following expression (3) : τI-2L-1.7≥0.02 (ns·mJ-2·cm-2.3·pulse2) (In expression (3), L is the thickness (unit: cm) of the synthetic silica glass component, I is the energy density (unit: mJ·cm-2·pulse-1) per pulse of the pulsed light applied to the synthetic silica glass component, and τ is the pulse width (unit: ns) of the pulsed light.) The synthetic silica glass component for exposure apparatus according to claim 15, wherein the wavelength of the pulsed light is 200 nm or less; and the thickness of the synthetic silica glass component, the energy density per pulse of the pulsed light applied to the synthetic silica glass component, and the pulse width of the pulsed light satisfy the following expression (4): τI-2L-1.7≥25 (ns·mJ-2·cm2.3·pulse2) (In expression (4), L is the thickness (unit: cm) of the synthetic silica glass component, I is the energy density (unit: mJ·cm-2·pulse-1) per pulse of the pulsed light applied to the synthetic silica glass component, and τ is the pulse width (unit: ns) of the pulsed light.) A method of exposing an image of a pattern provided on a master to light and projecting the image onto a substrate having a photosensitive material, wherein the exposure apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 14 is used. <seperator>EP-1445128-A1<id_sep>groupB60G15slash00group sectionBsection subclassB60Gsubclass groupB60G7slash00group subgroupB60G15slash06subgroup subgroupB60G11slash04subgroup classB60class subgroupB60G11slash02subgroup Suspension system A suspension system (1) comprising at least one leaf spring (3) adapted to be operatively arranged at a wheel hub (4) of a vehicle (2). It further comprises a vehicle body structure (5). Said at least one leaf spring (3) is provided with at least two supporting devices (6), wherein a first supporting device (6) is operatively connected to said wheel hub (4), and a second supporting device (6) is operatively connected to said vehicle body structure (5). One of said supporting devices (6'') is positioned above said wheel hub (4) and an other of said supporting devices (6') is positioned below said wheel hub (4). At least a middle portion (8) of said leaf spring, is positioned between said supporting devices (6), it is curved and adapted to flex when said leaf spring (3) is subject to axial loading. The loads are transferred to the leaf spring through said supporting devices (6). A vehicle (2) having a suspension system (1) of similar type is also disclosed.  Field of the Invention The present invention relates to a suspension system comprising at least one leaf spring adapted to be arranged at a wheel hub of a vehicle, and a vehicle body structure. The invention also relates to a vehicle having such a suspension system. Technical Background A suspension system of the kind known in the prior art of vehicles, usually comprises a spring for resilient load transfer between the wheel structure and the vehicle body structure, when, for example, the vehicle is riding over a rough road. Typically, the spring is a spiral spring or a leaf spring. The spiral spring, often in the form of a helically wound spiral surrounding a shock absorber, such as a suspension strut, can be applied at a front wheel and at a rear wheel of a vehicle. However, the space taken up by such a suspension strut is considerable, especially in the vertical direction. Hence, it is experienced that such suspension systems occupies space at the expense of many other functions needed in the same volume. A conventional leaf spring arrangement on the other hand, in the form of a flat bar having reinforcements in the middle portion, can mainly be used at a solid axle. Such leaf spring suspension systems are normally not adapted to be positioned at a pivoting wheel. The leaf spring is conventionally not spacious in the vertical direction, but in the longitudinal direction relating to the riding direction of the vehicle. The attachment points for fastening of the leaf spring to the vehicle body structure are normally located on the outside of the outer radius of the wheel as seen from the side of the vehicle. Hence, a wheel carrying structure provided with such a conventional leaf spring arrangement is essentially non-pivotal. Thus, a leaf spring suspension system is normally positioned at the rear wheel of larger conventional vehicles. Another issue related to voluminous arrangements by the wheel structure is that it is often desirable to provide an axle centering function to the wheel structure. Together with the above mentioned prior art technologies for suspension systems, these arrangements may result in complex structures and will occupy a considerable amount of space by the wheel structure. Summary of the Invention The object of the present invention is to provide a suspension system which provides space in relation to conventional suspension system and which also can provide an axle centering function. These and other objectives are achieved by a suspension system according to claim 1. Preferred embodiments of the invention are disclosed in accordance with the dependent claims. A vehicle having a suspension system according to the invention is also disclosed in accordance with claim 17. According to the invention there is provided a suspension system comprising at least one leaf spring adapted to be operatively arranged at a wheel hub of a vehicle, and a vehicle body structure, wherein said at least one leaf spring is provided with at least two supporting devices, wherein a first supporting device, operatively connected to said wheel hub, and a second supporting device, operatively connected to said vehicle body structure, and in that one of said supporting devices is positioned above said wheel hub and an other of said supporting devices is positioned below said wheel hub, and in that at least a middle portion of said leaf spring, positioned between said supporting devices, is curved and adapted to flex when said leaf spring is subject to axial loading by loads transferred through said supporting devices. A suspension system (1) comprising at least one leaf spring (3) adapted to be operatively arranged at a wheel hub (4) of a vehicle (2), and a vehicle body structure (5), characterised in that said at least one leaf spring (3) is provided with at least two supporting devices (6), wherein a first supporting device (6) is operatively connected to said wheel hub (4), and a second supporting device (6) is operatively connected to said vehicle body structure (5), and in that one of said supporting devices (6") is positioned above said wheel hub (4) and an other of said supporting devices (6') is positioned below said wheel hub (4), and in that at least a middle portion (8) of said leaf spring, positioned between said supporting devices (6), is curved and adapted to flex when said leaf spring (3) is subject to axial loading by loads transferred through said supporting devices (6). A suspension system (1) according to claim 1, wherein said at least one leaf spring (3) is essentially annular. A suspension system (1) according to claim 1, wherein said at least one leaf spring (3) is C-shaped. A suspension system (1) according to claim 3, wherein said at least one leaf spring (3) is having at least three supporting devices (6), of which two are positioned one at each end portion of said leaf spring (3), and a third supporting device (6) positioned between said end portions of said leaf spring (3). A suspension system (1) according to claim 1, having two leaf springs (3) being arranged in facing relationship around said wheel hub (4) as seen from the side of said vehicle (2). A suspension system (1) according to any one of claims 1-5, wherein said at least one leaf spring (3) is a composite spring. A suspension system (1) according to any one of claims 1-6, wherein the essential part of the flex introduced deflection of the middle portion (8) of the at least one leaf spring (3) is directed in the normal direction relative to the axial direction of said leaf spring (3). A suspension system (1) according to any one of claims 1-7, wherein the bending stiffness of the middle portion (8) of said leaf spring (3) is less than the stiffness of the end portions (9) of said leaf spring (3). A suspension system (1) according to any one of claims 1-8, wherein said supporting devices (6) of said at least one leaf spring (3) are positioned within the radius of a wheel (10) of the vehicle (2), as seen from the side of the vehicle (2). A suspension system (1) according to any one of claims 1-9, wherein said supporting devices (6) are operatively connected to the wheel hub (4) and the vehicle body structure (5) by revolute joints. A suspension system (1) according to any one of claims 1-10, wherein said at least one leaf spring (3) is operatively connected to said wheel hub (4) by a control arm (14). A suspension system (1) according to any one of claims 1-11, wherein the wheel hub (4) is operatively connected to a wheel axle, and the leaf spring (3) is adapted to be used as a wheel axle positioning system. A suspension system (1) according to claim 12, wherein the wheel hub (4) is operatively connected to the at least one leaf spring (3) by lateral links (13) attached by revolute joints (17). A suspension system (1) according to any one of claims 1-13, wherein the wheel hub (4) is operatively connected to the vehicle body structure (5) by a control arm (14). A suspension system (1) according to claim 14, wherein said control arm (14) is connected to the wheel hub (4) by a ball joint (15) and to the vehicle body structure (5) by a bushing (16). A suspension system (1) according to any one of claims 1-15, wherein the at least one leaf spring (3) has a camber angle of -1 - -20°. A vehicle (2) having a suspension system (1) comprising at least one leaf spring (3) operatively arranged at a wheel hub (4) of said vehicle (2), and a vehicle body structure (5), characterised in that said at least one leaf spring (3) is provided with at least two supporting devices (6),wherein a first supporting device (6') is operatively connected to said wheel hub (4), and a second supporting device (6'') is operatively connected to said vehicle body structure (5), and in that one of said supporting devices (6) is positioned above said wheel hub (4) and an other supporting device (6) is positioned below said wheel hub (4), and in that at least a middle portion (8) of said leaf spring, positioned between said supporting devices (6), is curved and adapted to flex when said leaf spring (3) is subject to axial loading by loads transferred through said supporting devices (6). A vehicle (2) having a suspension system (1) according to any one of claims 1 to 16. Amended claims in accordance with Rule 86(2) EPC. 1. A suspension system (1) comprising at least one leaf spring (3) adapted to be operatively arranged at a wheel hub (4) of a vehicle (2), and a vehicle body structure (5), wherein said at least one leaf spring (3) is provided with at least two supporting devices (6), wherein a first supporting device (6) is operatively connected to said wheel hub (4), and a second supporting device (6) is operatively connected to said vehicle body structure (5), and of said supporting devices (6") is positioned above said wheel hub (4) and an other of said supporting devices (6') is positioned below said wheel hub (4), and at least a middle portion (8) of said leaf spring, positioned between said supporting devices (6), is curved and adapted to flex when said leaf spring (3) is subject to axial loading by loads transferred through said supporting devices (6), characterised in that the wheel hub (4) is operatively connected to a wheel axle, and the leaf spring (3) is adapted to be used as a wheel axle positioning system. 2. A suspension system (1) according to claim 1, wherein said at least one leaf spring (3) is essentially annular. 3. A suspension system (1) according to claim 1, wherein said at least one leaf spring (3) is C-shaped. 4. A suspension system (1) according to claim 3, wherein said at least one leaf spring (3) is having at least three supporting devices (6), of which two are positioned one at each end portion of said leaf spring (3), and a third supporting device (6) positioned between said end portions of said leaf spring (3). 5. A suspension system (1) according to claim 1, having two leaf springs (3) being arranged in facing relationship around said wheel hub (4) as seen from the side of said vehicle (2). 6. A suspension system (1) according to any one of claims 1-5, wherein said at least one leaf spring (3) is a composite spring. 7. A suspension system (1) according to any one of claims 1-6, wherein the essential part of the flex introduced deflection of the middle portion (8) of the at least one leaf spring (3) is directed in the normal direction relative to the axial direction of said leaf spring (3). 8. A suspension system (1) according to any one of claims 1-7, wherein the bending stiffness of the middle portion (8) of said leaf spring (3) is less than the stiffness of the end portions (9) of said leaf spring (3). 9. A suspension system (1) according to any one of claims 1-8, wherein said supporting devices (6) of said at least one leaf spring (3) are positioned within the radius of a wheel (10) of the vehicle (2), as seen from the side of the vehicle (2). 10. A suspension system (1) according to any one of claims 1-9, wherein said supporting devices (6) are operatively connected to the wheel hub (4) and the vehicle body structure (5) by revolute joints. 11. A suspension system (1) according to any one of claims 1-10, wherein said at least one leaf spring (3) is operatively connected to said wheel hub (4) by a control arm (14). 12. A suspension system (1) according to claim 1, wherein the wheel hub (4) is operatively connected to the at least one leaf spring (3) by lateral links (13) attached by revolute joints (17). 13. A suspension system (1) according to any one of claims 1-12, wherein the wheel hub (4) is operatively connected to the vehicle body structure (5) by a control arm (14). 14. A suspension system (1) according to claim 13, wherein said control arm (14) is connected to the wheel hub (4) by a ball joint (15) and to the vehicle body structure (5) by a bushing (16). 15. A suspension system (1) according to any one of claims 1-14, wherein the at least one leaf spring (3) has a camber angle of -1 - -20°. 16. A vehicle (2) having a suspension system (1) comprising at least one leaf spring (3) operatively arranged at a wheel hub (4) of said vehicle (2), and a vehicle body structure (5), wherein said at least one leaf spring (3) is provided with at least two supporting devices (6),wherein a first supporting device (6') is operatively connected to said wheel hub (4), and a second supporting device (6'') is operatively connected to said vehicle body structure (5), one of said supporting devices (6) is positioned above said wheel hub (4) and an other supporting device (6) is positioned below said wheel hub (4), and at least a middle portion (8) of said leaf spring, positioned between said supporting devices (6), is curved and adapted to flex when said leaf spring (3) is subject to axial loading by loads transferred through said supporting devices (6),characterised in that in that the wheel hub (4) is operatively connected to a wheel axle, and the leaf spring (3) is adapted to be used as a wheel axle positioning system. 17. A vehicle (2) having a suspension system (1) according to any one of claims 1 to 15. <seperator>EP-1764885-A2<id_sep>subclassH01Ssubclass classH01class sectionHsection groupH01S3slash00group Short pulse lasers using large mode area fibers and higher order modes The specification describes an optical fiber device for propagating and recompressing high energy, ultrashort pulses with minimal distortions due to nonlinearity. The device is based on propagation in a higher order mode (HOM) of a few-moded fiber. Coupling into the HOM may be accomplished using long-period gratings. Features of the HOM fiber mode that are useful for high quality pulse compression include large effective area, high dispersion and low dispersion slope. In a preferred case the long period gratings go through a turnaround point (TAP) at the wavelength of operation.   This invention relates to optical fiber devices, such as lasers and amplifiers, that produce high power levels through the use of large effective mode area. More specifically, the devices derive improved performance characteristics when the fiber device is deliberately operated in a higher order mode.  Fiber lasers with high pulse energy, good beam quality and excellent optical characteristics have applications in many fields and industries such as analytical spectroscopy (fluorescence, absorption), illumination, remote sensing and environmental spectroscopy (wind speed, biohazards, ecosystem mapping etc), ranging and targeting (collision avoidance, military applications etc) and scientific instrumentation. Fiber lasers with exceptionally short pulse widths, for example, femtosecond fiber lasers, have special applications in these and other fields. There has been great progress in developing short pulse fiber lasers. However, one of the difficulties associated with femtoseconds pulses in fibers is amplifying the pulses to high power levels. Nonlinearities in the fiber cause distortions in the spectrum, and prevent compression and propagation of high energy pulses. A number of approaches have been developed to get around this problem. One successful technique is to amplify the ultrashort pulse in a multimode fiber. By exciting only the fundamental mode of the fiber, a large effective area can be used, thereby reducing the impact of nonlinearities. Another possibility is to use stretched pulse amplification, where the ultrashort pulse is first stretched by many orders of magnitudes, temporally broadening the pulse and decreasing the peak power, thus eliminating or reducing nonlinear interactions. However, the pulse must ultimately be recompressed after amplification, and the high pulse energies mean the recompression stage is usually done using bulk optics. A fiber that is capable of propagating and compressing high energy femtoseconds pulses would then be desirable for two reasons. First, if the fiber can be designed with an appropriate dispersion, it could serve as the post compression stage for the stretched, amplified pulses. Second, if the compression function can be implemented in a fiber, it can also serve as a delivery fiber for ultrashort pulses for applications such as use in an endoscope.  The invention in general is an optical fiber device for propagating and recompressing high energy, ultrashort pulses with reduced distortions due to nonlinearity. The device is based on propagation in a higher order mode (HOM) of a few-moded fiber. Coupling into the HOM may be accomplished using long-period gratings. Properties of an HOM fiber mode that are useful for high quality pulse compression include large effective area, high dispersion and low dispersion slope. In a preferred case the long period gratings go through a turn-around point (TAP) at the wavelength of operation. In other preferred embodiments, a large effective area, large enough to maintain nearly linear pulse compression, is realized using a double clad-structure. In this structure the HOM propagates in an inner cladding region. Preferably the HOM section of the device provides spectral phase -Φ(ω    We have recently demonstrated an erbium amplifier for amplifying femtosecond pulses from a femtosecond fiber laser at 1580 nm. This is described in A method comprising:  The method of claim 1 wherein the HOM is LP The method of claim 2 wherein x is 0 and y is 4 or greater. The method of claim 1 wherein the absolute value of the ratio of the dispersion slope to dispersion is approximately 2 divided by the pulse wavelength λ. The method of claim 1 wherein the HOM pulses are converted to a LOM. The method of claim 1 wherein the HOM optical fiber has a core, an inner cladding, and an outer cladding, and the optical energy propagating in the inner cladding is greater than the optical energy propagating in the core. The method of claim 1 wherein the LOM is converted to HOM using a long period grating (LPG). The method of claim 7 wherein the LPG has a turn around point (TAP) at a wavelength of approximately λ. The method of claim 1 wherein the second optical fiber section has an effective area greater than 1000 µm The method of claim 1 wherein the pulses are amplified to provide gain. ny of the fiber sections of the device may be doped with, for example, erbium to provide gain. A device comprising:  The device of claim 11 wherein the second optical fiber section supports HOM LPx,y where x is 0 or 1, and y is greater than 2. The device of claim 12 wherein x is 0 and y is 4 or greater. The device of claim 11 wherein the ratio of the dispersion slope to the dispersion is approximately 2 divided by the pulse wavelength λ. The device of claim 11 additionally including a mode converter for converting the HOM pulses to LOM pulses. The device of claim 11 wherein the mode converter is a long period grating (LPG). The device of claim 16 wherein the optical pulse generator generates pulses with a wavelength λ and the LPG has a turn around point (TAP) at a wavelength of approximately λ. The device of claim 11 wherein the HOM optical fiber has a core, an inner cladding, and an outer cladding, and wherein the inner cladding extends to a radius of at least 20 microns, and the inner cladding and the core produce a mode field diameter of at least 40 microns. The device of claim 11 wherein the second optical fiber section has an effective area greater than 1000 µm The device of claim 11 wherein one or more of the fiber sections of the device are doped to provide gain. <seperator>EP-1744585-A2<id_sep>classH04class subclassH04Wsubclass sectionHsection subgroupH04L12slash28subgroup subgroupH04W74slash02subgroup groupH04W74slash00group subgroupH04L12slash56subgroup subclassH04Lsubclass Methods for ensuring medium access in a wireless network An efficient medium dedication schedule is generated. The schedule gives wireless medium an ability to concurrently serve real-time and non real-time application and still be able to maintain the Quality of Service as requested by the real-time application. Furthermore, QoS registration request is delivered in a time bound manner and a time slot is chosen for transmission during controlled contention phase that give lesser collision and higher throughput.  This invention is related to access control of wireless medium used in streaming of time sensitive data such as real-time Audio-Visual data for interactive applications, communicative applications and gaming. In order to meet Quality of Service of the communication session set-up between mobile wireless terminals (or stations) and between access points or base stations and mobile terminals, a network layer that has control over an access mechanism need to aware on how the Quality of Service required for the session need to be served. The need to maintain service level for transmission of real-time data between access points and mobile terminals becomes increasingly as the number of mobile terminals and data traffic within the control of the access point increases. In some of wireless local area network (LAN) in compliance with IEEE 802.11, for example, it uses common wireless medium to exchange critical control and connection information (i.e. information on Quality of Service) between Station (STA) and the access point (AP). The control and connection information is exchanged in the form of management frames that happens periodically or on-demand depending on the data delivery requirement of the STA or the AP at any point in time. Critical and none critical data exchange between STA and AP is performed through contention of wireless medium. This makes predictability of critical data exchange difficult thus making real-time data streaming over the wireless medium almost impossible. In most networks, Quality of Service provided for a data streams is largely handled at the Internet Protocol (IP) or application layers. In order to be more effective in assuring the Quality of Service for the data stream can be meet under all network conditions in a wireless network, it becomes necessary that the layer 2 (or medium access controller) whose responsibility is to manage accesses to the wireless medium has control over access mechanism. In the present invention, the purpose is to offer higher layer some control over how the Quality of Service of the data connection can be guaranteed. The other problem, the present invention seeks to solve is the reduction of required delay bound faced by the medium access controller of the wireless medium. In most real-time audio-visual delivery, persistence connection to the wireless medium is mandatory. In some cases, the time for which audio-visual data is held by the Medium Access Controller (MAC) must be constant and must be within a specific time. If the holding of the real-time data exceed the maximum time for which the data is allowed to stay in the MAC layer, the real-time delivery characteristic required is no longer meet the criteria. In some of the wireless networks, medium access is largely based on data streams pumped from upper layers to the MAC layer in an ad-hoc basis. Assignment of wireless medium access in most cases follows an ad-hoc basis. For real-time critical data streams, there are needs to have a guaranteed time slot for the wireless medium access such that the data packets from the data streams can be delivered in a timely fashion. This invention provides a mechanism to allow upper register data streams with the MAC layer such that the medium access time can be guaranteed for the delivery of the data streams. A method, carried out by an access point, for controlling transmission of data stream from a station, the method comprising:  The method according to claim 1, further comprising:  The method according to claim 1, wherein:  The method according to claim 1, further comprising:  The method according to claim 1, wherein the information indicating the QoS requirement include at least one parameter of  minimum bandwidth of the data stream,  average bandwidth of the data stream,  maximum bandwidth of the data stream,  maximum latency allowable,  fluctuations of allowable latency,  data packet size,  minimum required interval each medium dedication,  extra bandwidth required for at least one of retransmission, preamble and protocol overhead. The method according to claim 2, further comprising,  transmitting, at the contention control phase, a notification including information representing a list of identification numbers of respective stations, from which the reservation request is successfully received. The method according to claim 6, further comprising,  at a contention-based phase during which the station detects whether transmission is possible or not every time before transmitting data stream, receiving the QoS registration request from the station other than those whose identification numbers are described in the list. The method according to claim 6, further comprising,  at a contention-based phase during which the station detects whether transmission is possible or not every time before transmitting data stream, receiving a polling request from the station other than those whose identification numbers are described in the list,  polling the station at a non-QoS phase during which the data stream is transmitted with unsecured quality. <seperator>EP-1598028-A1<id_sep>subgroupA61K6slash087subgroup subclassA61Ksubclass classA61class subgroupA61B17slash86subgroup subgroupA61C13slash08subgroup subgroupA61B17slash68subgroup subgroupA61K6slash083subgroup subclassA61Csubclass groupA61C8slash00group groupA61C13slash00group subgroupA61K6slash02subgroup subgroupA61K6slash08subgroup subgroupA61K6slash04subgroup sectionAsection subclassA61Bsubclass One-piece dental device and method to manufacture the same The invention relates to a dental device, in particular an one-piece dental implant, comprising an outer body (1) made of metal; and an inner body (2) made of plastic or composite, wherein the inner body (2) comprises a core (3) perfectly fitting into a cavity of the outer body (1). Further, the invention also relates to a method for manufacturing a dental device, in particular an one-piece dental implant, comprising the following steps in any order: manufacturing an outer body (1) of metal; and manufacturing an inner body (2) of plastic or composite material; wherein the inner body (2) comprises a core (3) manufactured within a cavity of the outer body (1).  Field of Invention The invention relates in general to an one-piece dental device and to a method to manufacture the same, and in particular to an one-piece dental implant and to a method to manufacture the same. Background Art Dental devices in general and dental implants in particular are made basically of two classes of materials: metals and ceramics. With regards to metal, several metals are used for forming implants. Each metal has its own characteristic which renders the metal a possible suitable choice for the dental implants. For example, Ti (titanium) or titanium alloy are generally used. Titanium dental implants are relatively light, have high strength, and they have excellent corrosion resistance and bio-compatibility. Ceramic materials such as zirconia-based, alumina-based and/or sapphire-based ceramics have also been used for manufacturing dental implants or dental devices. Dental devices, in general, and dental implants, in particular, formed from ceramic materials have the disadvantage that the material is more brittle as shown by a low value for the notched bar impact test. Ceramic materials are also susceptible to uncontrolled internal and external micro-cracks, and therefore they are prone to fail catastrophically. Moreover, artificial ceramic dental devices are rather expensive. However, the ceramic dental devices in general and the visible section of dental implants in particular, have a better aesthetic impact with respect to the metal implant and therefore enjoy a higher acceptance with the dental device bearer. Furthermore, in some instances, a dental implant which is made of metal only may come into contact with an abutment/crown which is also made of a metal like for instance titanium, titanium alloy, gold or a gold alloy. Alternatively the abutment/crown is made of ceramic such as zirconia-based, alumina-based (for instance inceram®) and/or sapphire-based ceramics, or a ceramic glass composite. In the first metal to metal case, saliva or tissue fluid, acting as an electrolyte, may cause a galvanic electric current to flow which in extreme cases may have unpleasant effects for the dental prosthesis bearer. Also the metal, in particular if metals other than titanium are used in contact with a titanium implant, may cause inflammation and irritation of the soft tissue which it contacts. In view of the above, there is the need for a dental device, in particular an one-piece dental-device, that combines the advantages of metal made dental devices with those of ceramic made dental devices and which, at the same time, is not subject to the above shortcomings entailed by ceramic materials. Furthermore, in view of the foregoing, there is the particular need for a dental implant, in particular an one-piece dental implant, that combines the advantages of metal made dental implants with those of ceramic made dental implants, which avoids the use of ceramic material. Summary of the Invention The object of the present invention is to provide dental device such as an one-piece dental implant, a dental prosthesis and the like that are easy to manufacture and have good bio-compatibility, high strength and a good aesthetic impact. In one preferred embodiment thereof the present invention is directed to a dental device, in particular a dental implant, which comprises an outer body made of metal and an inner body made of a plastic material, wherein the outer metal body is manufactured preferably by metal injection molding (MIM) or Ti Plasma spraying or by lathe processing or the like and the inner body is preferably manufactured from a plastic material by molding, for instance plastic injection molding (PIM), or composite material produced for instance with composite flow molding (CFM) process. A dental device, in particular an one-piece dental implant, comprising an outer body (1) made of metal; and an inner body (2) made of plastic or composite material, wherein the inner body (2) comprises a core (3) perfectly fitting into a cavity of the outer body (1). The dental device of claim 1, wherein the inner body 2 further comprises a collar (4) coronally of the core (3) and an abutment (11) coronally of the collar (4). The dental implant of claims 1 or 2, further comprising a metal or ceramic inner sleeve (7) fixed to a hollow portion of the inner body (2), the inner sleeve (7) being adapted for providing fixing means to a cap, a crown or the like. The dental implant of claim 3, further comprising one or more of the following means: snap coupling, press fitting, adhesive coupling means, lock engagement and warm shrinking for fixing the inner sleeve (7) to the hollow portion of the inner body (2). The dental implant of claims 3 or 4, wherein the inner sleeve (7) is provided by means of metal injection molding. The dental device of one or more of claims 1-5, wherein the outer body (1) is provided by means of metal injection molding and the inner body (2) is provided by means of plastic injection molding or by means of composite flow molding. The dental device of one or more of claims 1-5, wherein the outer body (1) is provided by means of lathe processing, milling or drilling, and the inner body (2) is provided by means of plastic injection molding or by means of composite flow molding. The dental implant of one or more of claims 1-7, wherein the metal is chosen among titanium or a titanium alloy, wherein the plastic material chosen from a group including PEEK (Polyetheretherketon), PPSU (Polyphenylensulfon), PES (Polyethersulfon) or combinations thereof; or wherein the composite material is chosen from one of said polymers and a fiber including Al2O3 or SiO2 or ZrO2. The dental implant of one or more of claims 1-8, wherein the implant surface is topographically or chemically modified by sandblasting, acid-etching or combination thereof, and/or plasma spraying, and/or growth factor adsorption, and/or peptide adsorption and/or protein adsorption, and/or amino acid adsorption, and wherein the modification of the implant surface is carried out at a soft tissue and/or bone tissue apposition surface. The dental implant of claim 6, wherein the inner profile of the cavity of the outer body (1) is complementary to the outer profile of the inner body (2), and wherein the respective profiles are rounded, such as to decrease tension between the inner and the outer bodies and/or such that to provide for an anti-rotation lock between the two bodies. The dental implant of claim 6, wherein the inner profile of the cavity outer body (1) is complementary to the outer profile of the inner body (2), and wherein the respective profiles are conically shaped. The dental implant according to one or more of claims 1-11, wherein the apical section of the outer body (1) is provided with at least one venting orifice. A method for manufacturing a dental device, in particular an one-piece dental implant, comprising the following steps in any order:  The method of claim 13, wherein the outer body (1) is manufactured prior to the inner body (2) and wherein the cavity of the outer body (1) defines a mold, and further comprising the step of molding the core (3) within the cavity of the inner body(1). The method of claims 12 or 13, wherein the inner body (2) further comprises a collar (4) coronally of the core (3) and an abutment (11) coronally of the collar (4), and further comprising the step of manufacturing the collar (4) and the abutment (11) simultaneously with manufacturing the core (3) and with the same material as the core. The method of one or more of claims 13-15, wherein the dental implant further includes an inner sleeve (7) within a hollow of the inner body (2), the inner sleeve (7) being adapted for providing fixing means to a cap, a crown or the like, and further comprising the step of fixing the inner sleeve to the hollow of the inner body by one or more of the steps of snap coupling, press fitting, adhesive coupling, lock engagement and warm shrinking. The method of claim 16, wherein the inner sleeve is provided by a step of a metal injection molding. The method according to one or more of claims 13-17, wherein the outer body (1) is provided by metal injection molding or by lathe processing, milling, drilling and the like, and the inner body (2) is provided by plastic injection molding or composite flow molding within the cavity of the outer body (1). The method according to one or more of claims 13-18, wherein the metal is chosen titanium or a titanium alloy, wherein the plastic material chosen from a group including PEEK (Polyetheretherketon), PPSU (Polyphenylensulfon), PES (Polyethersulfon) or combinations thereof; or wherein the composite material is chosen from one of said polymers and a fiber including Al2O3 or SiO2 or ZrO2. The method according to one or more of claims 13-19, further including the step of forming the inner profile of the cavity of the outer body (1) complementary to outer profile of the inner body (2), and wherein the respective profiles are rounded, such as to decrease tension between the inner and the outer bodies and/ or such that to provide for an anti-rotation lock between the two bodies. The method according to one or more of claims 13-19, further including the step of forming the inner profile of the cavity of the outer body (1) complementary to outer profile of the inner body (2), and wherein the respective profiles are conical. The method according to one or more of claims 13 to 21, further comprising the step of topographically or chemically modifying the implant surface by sandblasting, acid-etching or combination thereof, and/or plasma spraying, and/or growth factor adsorption, and/or peptide adsorption, and/or protein adsorption, and/or amino acid adsorption, and wherein the modification of the implant surface is carried out at a soft tissue and/or bone tissue apposition surface. <seperator>EP-1513063-A1<id_sep>subgroupG06F9slash44subgroup groupG06F1slash00group subgroupG06F21slash22subgroup sectionGsection groupG06F13slash00group subclassG06Fsubclass classG06class groupG06F21slash00group subgroupG06F9slash46subgroup subgroupG06F9slash48subgroup PORTABLE TERMINAL, METHOD, PROGRAM, AND STORAGE MEDIUM FOR MANAGING APPLICATION START An IP server sends e-mail to a mobile device MS. This e-mail includes an application specifier that specifies startup of a Java application stored in mobile device MS. On the other hand, the ADF for the Java application stored in mobile device MS includes trusted source data containing a plurality of e-mail addresses that indicate trusted origins. Mobile device MS compares the e-mail transmission origin address with the trusted source data. Mobile device MS, only in the case where the transmission origin address of the received e-mail is included in the trusted source data, starts up a Java application based on an. application specifier included in said e-mail.  This invention concerns portable terminals that manage startups of application programs. Portable terminals such as mobile phones with packet communications capability can download various application programs (henceforth, "applications") from -servers connected to the Internet, and execute the downloaded applications. In recent years, accompanying the growth of networks like the Internet, many products with portable terminals can receive (henceforth "download") applications from other communication devices through networks. With networks like the Internet, because they are open networks on which everyone has the capability to send and receive data, security isn't assured for downloaded applications. Accordingly, if one permits a portable terminal to start up an application that was downloaded through an open network without restriction, the user, by executing the application in the portable terminal, may unintentionally send to an external communications device private data stored in the mobile terminal, causing an inconvenience, and compromising security. Accordingly, operations of portable terminals according to the prior art are restricted so that the portable terminals cannot start other applications stored in the portable terminal in operations in accordance with an application that was provided through networks. For example, portable terminals that store multiple applications written in Java (trademark) programming language, under the direction of the Java Application Manager (JAM), a control program that performs management of the startup of applications, etc., will not conduct the startup of other applications by a startup instruction by other applications. In so doing, with the addition of controls that prevent the starting of other applications by a startup instruction by an application, the information security of the portable terminal is assured. However, in this case, some inconveniences, such that it becomes difficult for making multiple applications share a series of operations, arise. This invention, in view of the above problems, provides, with the aim of assuring security of information in starting applications in a portable terminal, the portable terminal, management methods, programs and storage media described below. A 1st form of the present invention is a portable terminal comprising: receiving means that receives data from external electronic devices through wireless communications networks; storing means that stores (a) a plurality of applications including at least. a first application and a second application, (b) source data that indicates sources of the plurality of applications respectively and (c) related data that has been related to the plurality of applications respectively; determining means that determines, in the case where related data related to the first application includes a startup instruction that instructs a startup of the second application, based on at least one of source data of the first application or source data of the second application, whether it is permissible to start the second application following the startup instruction; and executing means that, in the case where it has been determined by the determining means that it is permissible to start second application, executes startup operations for the second application. A 2nd form of the present invention is a portable terminal according to the 1st form wherein: the storing means stores trusted source data that includes at least one set of source data that indicates a trusted source of applications; and the. determining means conducts the determination based on source data of the first application and on the trusted source data. A portable terminal comprising:  A portable terminal according to claim 1 wherein:  A portable terminal according to claim 2 wherein:  A portable terminal according to claim 1 wherein:  A.portable terminal according to claim 4 wherein:  A portable terminal according to claims 2 or 4 wherein:  A portable terminal according to claim 1 wherein:  A portable terminal according to claim 7 wherein:  A portable terminal according to claim 1 wherein:  A portable terminal according to claim 9 wherein:  A portable terminal according to claim 1 wherein:  A portable terminal according to claim 1 wherein:  A portable terminal comprising:  A portable terminal according to claim 13 wherein:  A portable terminal accordingto claim 14 wherein:  A portable terminal according to claim 14 wherein:  A portable terminal according to claim 13 wherein    said storing means stores untrusted source data that includes at least one set of source data that indicates an untrusted source of related data; and    said determining means conducts said determination based on source data of related data related to said first application and on said untrusted source data. A portable terminal according to claim 17 wherein:  A portable terminal according to claim 18 wherein:  A portable terminal according to claim 19 wherein:  A portable terminal according to claim 19 wherein:  A portable terminal according to claim 21 wherein: A portable terminal according to claims 1 or 13 wherein:  A portable terminal according to claims 1 or 13 further comprising:  A portable terminal according to claims 1 or 13 wherein:  A method for managing startup of application comprising:  A method for managing startup of application comprising:  <seperator>EP-1384568-A1<id_sep>classA43class sectionBsection subclassB29Dsubclass subgroupB29D31slash50subgroup subgroupB29D31slash518subgroup subclassA43Bsubclass classB29class subgroupA43B5slash16subgroup sectionAsection Skate boot A lasted skate boot for ice skates or in-line roller skates, the lasted skate boot comprising an upper having an outer shell molded of synthetic material and an inner lining mounted inside the outer shell. The outer shell comprises a heel counter, an ankle portion, medial and lateral quarters and reinforcing elements provided on the heel counter, ankle portion, medial quarter or lateral quarter. Each of the reinforcing elements comprises a ridge (70) formed on one of the inner or outer surface of the outer shell and a groove (72) registering with the ridge, the groove being formed on one of the inner or outer surface of the outer shell. The outer shell may also comprise an ankle portion having an upper part and a lower part that projects outwardly with relation to the upper part, the lower part merging with the heel counter. The lower and upper parts of the ankle portion follow the rear profile of the Achilles tendon.   The invention relates to a lasted skate boot for ice skates or in-line roller skates and more particularly to a lasted skate boot comprising an upper having a molded outer shell and an inner lining mounted inside the outer shell.  Typical skate boots are fabricated by assembling together previously die-cut pieces of textile material and shaping them over a last. Various pieces of textiles or fabrics are cut to specific patterns, which are then pre-assembled by stitching or gluing or both into a multi-layer construction. The rigidity and flexibility characteristics of the skate boot are defined by the various layers of materials being positioned and layered in specific regions of the pre-assembled component of the skate boot. The accumulation of pieces of material into layers and the mechanical properties of each piece of textile or fabric material define the overall dynamic behavior of the skate boot. Usually, the pre-assembled component further includes rigid components generally made of plastic to increase the rigidity of specific area of the skate boot. The pre-assembled boot generally consists of the back and sides of the skate boot and a toe cap and tongue assembly. The pre-assembled boot has the general configuration of the finished product but has not yet been shaped to the final form of the skate boot. The pre-assembled component is positioned over a last and formed to obtain the shape of the desired finished product. A last is a three-dimensional shape of the inside cavity of a boot. The pre-assembled boot may be mounted upside down onto the last for ease of manipulation and assembly of the remaining components making up the skate boot. An insole is placed on the top part of the upside down last and the pre-assembled boot is stretched over the last and over the insole in order for the pre-assembled boot to conform to the specific shape of the last. The stretched material is then glued and nailed or tacked to the insole to maintain the desired shape. Once the upper part of the skate boot is completed, a rigid outsole is secured to the insole of the boot to complete the skate boot. An ice skate blade holder or an in-line roller chassis is finally mounted to the bottom of the boot to complete the skate. This type of process is extensively used in the shoemaking industry. It generates a good product but has some disadvantages. For instance, the number of parts involved in the multi-layer construction can be staggering; a conventional ice skate for hockey may have up to eighty parts to be assembled and shaped over the last. As a consequence, the manufacturing process is lengthy and complex. There is a need in the industry for a skate boot made of fewer components than the traditionally made skate boot and which is lighter than the traditionally made skate boot. There is also a need for a skate boot, which provides flexibility and durability as well as optimal performance.  As embodied and broadly described herein, the invention seeks to provide a lasted skate boot comprising an upper for enclosing a human foot, the foot having a heel, an Achilles tendon having an upper part and a lower part that projects outwardly with relation to the upper part, the lower part merging with the heel, the foot also comprising an ankle with a medial malleolus and a lateral malleolus, a plantar surface, medial and lateral sides and toes; (a) said upper comprising an outer shell and an inner lining mounted inside said outer shell; (b) said inner lining comprising a surface facing the heel, the ankle and the medial and lateral sides of the foot, said inner lining is less rigid than said outer shell; and (c) said outer shell being molded of synthetic material and comprising a heel counter receiving the heel of the foot, an ankle portion receiving the ankle and medial and lateral quarters receiving the medial and lateral sides of the foot respectively, said medial and lateral quarters extending forwardly from said heel counter and said ankle portion, said medial and lateral quarters having an inner surface and an outer surface, at least one of said medial and lateral quarters comprising reinforcing elements, each of said reinforcing elements having a ridge formed on one of said inner or outer surfaces and a groove registering with said ridge, said groove being formed on one of said inner or outer surfaces. A lasted skate boot comprising an upper for enclosing a human foot, the foot having a heel, an Achilles tendon having an upper part and a lower part that projects outwardly with relation to the upper part, the lower part merging with the heel, the foot also comprising an ankle with a medial malleolus and a lateral malleolus, a plantar surface, medial and lateral sides and toes;  A lasted skate boot as defined in claim 1 wherein said ankle portion comprises medial and lateral sides facing the medial malleolus and the lateral malleolus, said medial and lateral sides having an inner surface and an outer surface, at least one of said medial and lateral sides comprising reinforcing elements, each of said reinforcing elements having a ridge formed on one of said inner or outer surfaces and a groove registering with said ridge, said groove being formed on one of said inner or outer surfaces. A lasted skate boot as defined in claim 1 wherein said heel counter comprises an inner surface and an outer surface, said heel counter further comprising reinforcing elements having a ridge formed on one of said inner or outer surfaces and a groove registering with said ridge, said groove being formed on one of said inner or outer surfaces. A lasted skate boot as defined in claim 1 wherein said ankle portion comprises an upper part and a lower part that projects outwardly with relation to said upper part, said lower part merging with said heel counter, said upper part following the upper part of the Achilles tendon and said lower part following the lower part of the Achilles tendon. A lasted skate boot as defined in claim 1 wherein said ankle portion comprises a lateral depression for receiving the lateral malleolus and a medial depression for receiving the medial malleolus. A lasted skate boot as defined in claim 5 wherein said lateral depression is below said medial depression. A lasted skate boot as defined in claim 1 further comprising an insole facing the plantar surface of the foot and an insole fastener for affixing said insole to said outer shell. A lasted skate boot as defined in claim 7 wherein said insole fastener is selected from the group consisting of stitches, glue, nails, adhesives and tacks. A lasted skate boot as defined in claim 1 further comprising a toe box facing the toes of the foot and a toe box fastener for affixing said toe box to said medial and lateral quarters. A lasted skate boot as defined in claim 9 further comprising a tongue extending upwardly and rearwardly from said toe box and an insole facing the plantar surface of the foot. A lasted skate boot as defined in claim 10 wherein said toe box fastener is selected from the group consisting of stitches, glue, nails, adhesives and tacks. A lasted skate boot as defined in claim 1 wherein said upper further comprising a protective overlay, said overlay recovering a portion of said medial and lateral quarters. A lasted skate boot as defined in claim 1 wherein said outer shell is made of a homogenous synthetic material. A lasted skate boot as defined in claim 1 wherein said outer shell comprises an outer layer and an inner layer, said outer layer being more rigid than said inner layer. A lasted skate boot as defined in claim 1 further comprising lacing members disposed in an upper portion of said medial and lateral quarters and a rear cover secured to a rear portion of said outer shell. A lasted skate boot as defined in claim 15 wherein said lacing members are selected from the group consisting of lacing loops and eyelets. An ice skate comprising the lasted skate boot as defined in claim 1. An in-line roller skate comprising the lasted skate boot as defined in claim 1. A lasted skate boot comprising an upper for enclosing a human foot, the foot having a heel, an Achilles tendon having an upper part and a lower part that projects outwardly with relation to the upper part, the lower part merging with the heel, the foot also comprising an ankle with a medial malleolus and a lateral malleolus, a plantar surface, medial and lateral sides and toes;  A lasted skate boot as defined in claim 19 wherein said medial and lateral quarters comprises an inner surface and an outer surface, at least one of said medial and lateral quarters comprising reinforcing elements, each of said reinforcing elements having a ridge formed on one of said inner or outer surfaces and a groove registering with said ridge, said groove being formed on one of said inner or outer surfaces. A lasted skate boot as defined in claim 19 wherein said heel counter comprises an inner surface and an outer surface, said heel counter further comprising reinforcing elements having a ridge formed on one of said inner or outer surfaces and a groove registering with said ridge, said groove being formed on one of said inner or outer surfaces. A lasted skate boot as defined in claim 19 wherein said ankle portion comprises medial and lateral sides facing the medial malleolus and the lateral malleolus, said medial and lateral sides having an inner surface and an outer surface, at least one of said medial and lateral sides comprising reinforcing elements, each of said reinforcing elements having a ridge formed on one of said inner or outer surfaces and a groove registering with said ridge, said groove being formed on one of said inner or outer surfaces. A lasted skate boot as defined in claim 19 wherein said ankle portion comprises a lateral depression for receiving the lateral malleolus and a medial depression for receiving the medial malleolus. A lasted skate boot as defined in claim 23 wherein said lateral depression is below said medial depression. A lasted skate boot as defined in claim 19 further comprising an insole facing the plantar surface of the foot and an insole fastener for affixing said insole to said outer shell. A lasted skate boot as defined in claim 25 wherein said insole fastener is selected from the group consisting of stitches, glue, nails, adhesives and tacks. A lasted skate boot as defined in claim 19 further comprising a toe box facing the toes of the foot and a toe box fastener for affixing said toe box to said medial and lateral quarters. A lasted skate boot as defined in claim 27 further comprising a tongue extending upwardly and rearwardly from said toe box and an insole facing the plantar surface of the foot. A lasted skate boot as defined in claim 28 wherein said toe box fastener is selected from the group consisting of stitches, glue, nails, adhesives and tacks. A lasted skate boot as defined in claim 19 wherein said upper further comprising a protective overlay, said overlay recovering a portion of said medial and lateral quarters. A lasted skate boot as defined in claim 19 wherein said outer shell is made of a homogenous synthetic material. A lasted skate boot as defined in claim 19 wherein said outer shell comprises an outer layer and an inner layer, said outer layer being more rigid than said inner layer. A lasted skate boot as defined in claim 19 further comprising lacing members disposed in an upper portion of said medial and lateral quarters and a rear cover secured to a rear portion of said outer shell. A lasted skate boot as defined in claim 33 wherein said lacing members is selected from the group consisting of lacing loops and eyelets. An ice skate comprising the lasted skate boot as defined in claim 19. An in-line roller skate comprising the lasted skate boot as defined in claim 19. A molded outer shell for use in an upper of a lasted skate boot having a sole component, said molded outer shell comprising a heel counter receiving the heel of a human foot, an ankle portion receiving the ankle and medial and lateral quarters receiving the medial and lateral sides of the foot respectively, said medial and lateral quarters extending forwardly from said heel counter and said ankle portion, said medial and lateral quarters having an inner surface and an outer surface, at least one of said medial and lateral quarters comprising reinforcing elements, each of said reinforcing elements having a ridge formed on one of said inner or outer surfaces and a groove registering with said ridge, said groove being formed on one of said inner or outer surfaces. A molded outer shell as defined in claim 37, wherein said heel counter comprises an inner surface and an outer surface, said heel counter further comprising reinforcing elements having a ridge formed on one of said inner or outer surfaces and a groove registering with said ridge, said groove being formed on one of said inner or outer surfaces. A molded outer shell as defined in claim 37, wherein said ankle portion comprises medial and lateral sides facing the medial malleolus and the lateral malleolus, said medial and lateral sides having an inner surface and an outer surface, at least one of said medial and lateral sides comprising reinforcing elements, each of said reinforcing elements having a ridge formed on one of said inner or outer surfaces and a groove registering with said ridge, said groove being formed on one of said inner or outer surfaces. A lasted skate boot as defined in claim 37 wherein said ankle portion comprises a lateral depression for receiving the lateral malleolus and a medial depression for receiving the medial malleolus. A lasted skate boot as defined in claim 40 wherein said lateral depression is below said medial depression. A molded outer shell as defined in claim 37 wherein said outer shell further comprises a lower skirt portion foldable to overlap the sole component of the lasted skate boot. A molded outer shell as defined in claim 37 wherein said ankle portion comprises an upper part and a lower part that projects outwardly with relation to said upper part, said lower part merging with said heel counter, said upper part following the upper part of the Achilles tendon of the foot and said lower part following the lower part of the Achilles tendon of the foot. A molded outer shell for use in an upper of a lasted skate boot having a sole component, said molded outer shell comprising a heel counter receiving the heel of a human foot, an ankle portion receiving the ankle and medial and lateral quarters receiving the medial and lateral sides of the foot respectively, said ankle portion comprising an upper part and a lower part that projects outwardly with relation to said upper part, said lower part merging with said heel counter, said upper part following the upper part of the Achilles tendon of the foot and said lower part following the lower part of the Achilles tendon of the foot. A molded outer shell as defined in claim 44 wherein said medial and lateral quarters comprises an inner surface and an outer surface, at least one of said medial and lateral quarters comprising reinforcing elements, each of said reinforcing elements having a ridge formed on one of said inner or outer surfaces and a groove registering with said ridge, said groove being formed on one of said inner or outer surfaces. A molded outer shell as defined in claim 44 wherein said ankle portion comprises medial and lateral sides facing the medial malleolus and the lateral malleolus, said medial and lateral sides having an inner surface and an outer surface, at least one of said medial and lateral sides comprising reinforcing elements, each of said reinforcing elements having a ridge formed on one of said inner or outer surfaces and a groove registering with said ridge, said groove being formed on one of said inner or outer surfaces. A lasted skate boot as defined in claim 44 wherein said ankle portion comprises a lateral depression for receiving the lateral malleolus and a medial depression for receiving the medial malleolus. A lasted skate boot as defined in claim 47 wherein said lateral depression is below said medial depression. A molded outer shell as defined in claim 44 wherein said heel counter comprises an inner surface and an outer surface, said heel counter further comprising reinforcing elements having a ridge formed on one of said inner or outer surfaces and a groove registering with said ridge, said groove being formed on one of said inner or outer surfaces. A molded outer shell as defined in claim 44 wherein said outer shell further comprises a lower skirt portion foldable to overlap the sole component of the lasted skate boot. <seperator>EP-1362521-A1<id_sep>classA43class subgroupA63C17slash04subgroup subclassA63Csubclass subgroupA63C17slash06subgroup subgroupA43B7slash20subgroup classA63class subclassA43Bsubclass subgroupA43B5slash16subgroup sectionAsection subgroupA43B7slash14subgroup Improved sports shoe A sports shoe, particularly for skates, constituted by a rigid sole (5) and by a separate soft upper (17), which surrounds at least part of the heel, the rigid sole being associated or formed monolithically with a frame that surrounds the foot at least laterally for containing a soft innerboot (18).  The present invention relates to a sports shoe that can be used particularly for example for practicing sports such as street skating and ice skating or for skiing. Currently in use sports shoes which are constituted by a rigid shell below which a likewise rigid sole is associated or formed monolithically for connection to the optional sports implement, such as for example a frame or truck for supporting a plurality of in-line wheels or a ski. The sole and the shell, which wraps around the user's foot, are usually made of rigid materials in order to allow efficient transmission of forces between the user's foot and the sports implement. Such known type of sports shoe, further has a quarter that is pivoted to the shell approximately in the malleolar region and is suitable to surround the lower part of the leg. The shell and the quarter are further provided with fastening means in order to achieve temporary closure of the shoe around the foot. An example of these known types of sports shoe is shown in US 5,437,466, which discloses a skate with in-line wheels that comprises a soft shoe provided with reinforcements for containing the foot, such reinforcements being advantageously made of semirigid plastic material and being arranged approximately at the heel, at the malleoli and at the ankle. The body of the shoe can be made of materials that allow the circulation of ventilation and cooling air; moreover, the shoe is fitted on a frame that supports a plurality of in-line wheels for gliding on the ground. The known type of sports shoe, however, has limited comfort for the user, since it is very heavy. Another drawback of these conventional shoes is the presence of soft material that wraps around the foot and is inadequate in preventing the discomfort caused by the external presence of the containment reinforcements made of semirigid material. US 6,148,546 is also known which illustrates a sports shoe, particularly a skate with in-line wheels, which comprises an outer sole, suitable for connection to the sports implement, above which a containment structure for the user's foot is associated. Such containment structure comprises a first portion, made of relatively rigid material, which constitutes a rear seat for containment and support of the heel of the user. The first portion is advantageously formed monolithically with the sole and is associated, at its front edges, with a second portion, made of relatively soft material, which constitutes an upper for surrounding the front part of the foot. The upper is associated, in a downward region, with the front free portion of the sole and with the lateral regions of the rear seat. One drawback that can be observed in such known type of sports shoe is the fact that its overall weight is still significant even though the first portion of the upper is made of soft materials. Furthermore, manufacture of the sports shoe requires a large number of operations, such as the necessary stitched seams between the various components, which lead to an increase in overall costs. A sports shoe, particularly for skates, characterized in that it comprises a rigid sole, associated with a frame that wraps around the foot at least laterally, and a separate soft upper, which surrounds at least part of the heel, said frame being rotatably associated with said frame. The sports shoe according to claim 1, characterized in that it comprises a soft innerboot contained inside said soft upper. The sports shoe according to claim 1, characterized in that said frame and/or said quarter comprise one or more rigid rod-like elements. The sports shoe according to claim 1, characterized in that said rigid sole is associated with said frame or obtained monolithically therewith, said frame comprising two rod-like arms, each of which is approximately shaped like an inverted letter V, so as to form a first wing and a second wing which diverge and are arranged laterally with respect to the user's foot. The sports shoe according to claims 1 and 4, characterized in that said first wing is orientated obliquely and blends with a first perimetric edge of said sole, approximately at a first region of the metatarsus of the foot. The sports shoe according to claim 5, characterized in that said second wing is arranged obliquely approximately at right angles to said first wing, affects a second region of the heel and is blended laterally with said sole approximately at said first perimetric edge. The sports shoe according to claims 5 and/or 6, characterized in that said first and second wings are blended at a vertex that is arranged approximately proximate to a third region of the malleoli, said quarter being rotatably associated thereat, said quarter comprising a rigid support that wraps around the lower part of the leg of the user. The sports shoe according to one or more of the preceding claims, characterized in that said frame comprises a first bridge that is approximately U-shaped and wraps around, at the rear, said second region of the heel approximately at the level of the malleoli. The sports shoe according to one or more of the preceding claims, characterized in that said separate soft upper affects the entire surface of the foot and runs from the heel region to the malleolar region until it affects the upper metatarsal region and the lower metatarsal region. The sports shoe according to claim 9, characterized in that the rear and central portions of said outer upper comprise a multilayer fabric that comprises a soft inner layer associated with a lattice-like outer layer that is partially elastic. The sports shoe according to claims 9 and/or 10, characterized in that the front portion of said outer upper comprises a multilayer fabric, which in turn comprises a soft inner layer that is associated with an outer layer that is coated with plastic externally so as to provide resistance to abrasion or environmental agents. The sports shoe according to one or more of the preceding claims, characterized in that a rigid toe cup is associated with said soft upper at the tip of the toe and is in turn associated with said sole or monolithic therewith in a downward region. The sports shoe according to one or more of the preceding claims, characterized in that said separate soft upper is connected to said frame at the articulation to said support for said quarter. The sports shoe according to one or more of the preceding claims, characterized in that first fastening means are associated with said soft upper and are arranged approximately at the upper metatarsal region, said first fastening means comprising a lattice-like semirigid structure made of plastic material, which forms flaps and is adapted to strengthen said shoe, prevent abrasions of said soft fabrics and/or support one or more closure elements. The sports shoe according to one or more of the preceding claims, characterized in that an at least partially soft element is interposed between said sole and said soft upper. The sports shoe according to claim 15, characterized in that said soft element supports, in a downward region, the foot of the user at least in the heel region and/or in the plantar arch region. The sports shoe according to claim 15 and/or 16, characterized in that said soft element supports, in a downward region, the foot of the user from the heel region to the plantar arch. The sports shoe according to claim 15, characterized in that said soft element supports, in a downward region, the entire foot of the user. The sports shoe according to one or more of claims 15-17, characterized in that said soft element has second edges that protrude laterally so as to affect the lower part of said upper and in particular a fifth region of the plantar arch of the foot, said second edges being connected at said third heel region, so as to constitute a support for the lower part of the heel of the user. The sports shoe according to one or more of the preceding claims, characterized in that said soft element is associable with said upper and/or said sole. The sports shoe according to one or more of claims 1-20, characterized in that said frame is provided with means for detachable connection to said sole. The sports shoe according to one or more of claims 1-20, characterized in that said frame is formed monolithically with said sole. <seperator>EP-1744357-A2<id_sep>sectionHsection classH01class subgroupH01L21slash762subgroup subclassH01Lsubclass subgroupH01L21slash70subgroup Method for manufacturing SIMOX wafer and SIMOX wafer One embodiment of this method for manufacturing a SIMOX wafer includes: while heating a silicon wafer, implanting oxygen ions so as to form a high oxygen concentration layer; implanting oxygen ions into the silicon wafer obtained by the forming of the high oxygen concentration layer so as to form an amorphous layer; and heat-treating the silicon wafer obtained by the forming of the amorphous layer so as to form a buried oxide layer, wherein in the forming of the amorphous layer, the implantation of oxygen ions is carried out after preheating the silicon wafer to a temperature lower than the heating temperature of the forming of the high oxygen concentration layer. Another embodiment of this method for manufacturing a SIMOX wafer includes: in the above forming of the high oxygen concentration layer, implanting oxygen ions while heating a silicon wafer at a temperature of 300°C or more; and in the above forming of the amorphous layer, implanting oxygen ions after preheating the silicon wafer to a temperature of less than 300°C. The present invention relates to a method for manufacturing SIMOX (Separation by Implanted Oxygen) wafers and also to a SIMOX wafer. In particular, the present invention relates to a method for manufacturing SIMOX wafers by a modified low dose (MLD) process. This application claims priority from The SIMOX process is known as one of methods for manufacturing silicon-on-insulator (SOI) wafers. In accordance with the process, a buried oxide (BOX) layer can be formed by the following: oxygen atoms are implanted into a wafer, for example, at an implantation energy of about 200 keV and at a dose amount of about 2×10 Substrates obtained at a dose amount of at least 10 In order to solve this problem, the ITOX (Internal Thermal Oxidation) process was developed (Patent Document 1 and Non-Patent Document 1). In accordance with this ITOX process, the thickness of the BOX layer can be increased by the following: a heat treatment by which the thickness becomes a theoretical film thickness calculated from the dose amount of oxygen ions, is conducted in an argon gas atmosphere having an oxygen concentration less than 1%, and then a heat treatment is conducted in an argon atmosphere having an oxygen concentration of 1% or more. By adopting the ITOX process, it is possible to increase the thickness of the BOX layer, to reduce pinholes in the BOX layer, and to lower irregularities or roughness at the surface of the SOI layer (a silicon single crystal layer on the surface of a substrate) and at the interface between the SOI layer and the BOX layer. Therefore, the quality of the low-dose SIMOX wafers can be significantly improved. However, even in the low-dose SIMOX process in which this technology is adopted, due to the large dose amount of oxygen ions, the ion-implantation takes several hours per batch. Moreover, since the ITOX process (i.e., specific heat treatment steps) is needed, productivity is decreased. Therefore, there is a problem to increase production costs. With regard to the method for manufacturing SIMOX wafers, a process in which oxygen ions are implanted in two separate stages has been disclosed (Patent Document 2). In this two-stage oxygen ion implantation, oxygen ions are implanted into a silicon wafer at a large dose amount while the silicon wafer is in a heated state, and then the silicon wafer is cooled to about room temperature and oxygen ions are again implanted. In the first oxygen ion implantation, since the silicon wafer is heated, the surface of the silicon wafer is kept in the form of a silicon single crystal. In the second oxygen ion implantation, since the silicon wafer is held at a low temperature, an amorphous layer is formed. Then, the silicon wafer thus obtained is subjected to an oxidation treatment at a high temperature for a fixed length of time, thereby, a SOI structure is formed. In this process, due to the heat treatment after the ion implantation, a high-density defect layer including polysilicon, twin crystal and stacking faults are formed from the amorphous layer. Since oxygen readily precipitates in a region in which this high-density defect layer is formed, it is possible to thicken the BOX layer up to about twice as thick as a theoretical film thickness anticipated from the dose amount of oxygen ions. Moreover, since the dose amount of oxygen ions can be reduced to a lower level than that in the ITOX process, productivity is improved and production costs can be reduced. SIMOX wafers manufactured by this process are referred to as MLD-SIMOX, which stands for "modified low dose SIMOX". A method for manufacturing a SIMOX wafer, comprising:  The method for manufacturing a SIMOX wafer according to claim 1, wherein in the forming of the amorphous layer, oxygen ions are implanted in a plurality of fractions. The method for manufacturing a SIMOX wafer according to claim 2, wherein in the forming of the amorphous layer, each fraction of the implantation of oxygen ions is carried out at an implantation energy different from those of other fractions of the implantation. A method for manufacturing a SIMOX wafer, comprising:  The method for manufacturing a SIMOX wafer according to claim 4, wherein in the forming of the amorphous layer, oxygen ions are implanted in a plurality of fractions. The method for manufacturing a SIMOX wafer according to claim 5, wherein in the forming of the amorphous layer, the fractions of the implantation of oxygen ions are carried out at different implantation energies. <seperator>EP-1369339-A2<id_sep>subgroupG01P3slash42subgroup sectionBsection subgroupB62D6slash08subgroup groupB62D101slash00group subgroupB62D5slash04subgroup groupB62D6slash00group groupB62D117slash00group groupB62D119slash00group sectionGsection classG01class subclassG01Psubclass subgroupG01P3slash488subgroup groupB62D113slash00group subclassB62Dsubclass subgroupB62D6slash10subgroup classB62class Electric power steering apparatus A driving control unit (21b) of a controller (21) determines which of an input shaft (32) and an output shaft (33) in a steering shaft (3) is dynamically superior and when the output shaft (33) is dynamically superior to the input shaft (32), a motor (6) is driven so that torque resulting in a time integral value smaller than a time integral value of relative torque between the input shaft (32) and the output shaft (33) is generated in a backward assist direction.  BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to a power steering apparatus. In a related electric power steering apparatus described in, for example, JP-A-2002-29431, torque T is calculated from a relative difference between steering angles in an input shaft of the input side and an output shaft of the output side from a torsion bar in a steering shaft. Then, when it is determined that the torque T is backward input torque based on each angular speed and vehicle speed of the input shaft and the output shaft, a sign (+, -) of the torque T is reversed and the torque T is set to backward assist torque, and a motor for steering assistance is driven in order to generate it. Incidentally, the case that the torque T becomes the backward input torque is, for example, the case that disturbance from a road surface is received in a steering direction of wheels in a steering holding state at the time of straight travel. Thus, the backward input torque due to the disturbance is offset by driving force of the motor to prevent the disturbance from propagating to a handle. However, in the related electric power steering apparatus as described above, unnatural steering feeling may be given to a driver by performing a backward assist operation in which the disturbance is offset regardless of driver's intention. Since the disturbance hardly propagates to the handle, it is difficult for the driver to accurately grasp a state of the road surface. Giving an extreme example, there is little difference between the case of running a snowy road with low frictional resistance of the road surface in a steering direction and the case of running a gravel road with high frictional resistance in the disturbance propagating to the driver through the handle. That is, information about the road surface through the handle does not propagate to the driver accurately. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION In view of the problem as described above, an object of the invention is to provide an electric power steering apparatus for propagating disturbance to a handle moderately while suppressing the disturbance. In order to solve the aforesaid object, the invention is characterized by having the following arrangement. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS  DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS Fig. 1 is a diagram schematically showing a structure of an electric power steering apparatus according to an embodiment of the invention. The apparatus is an apparatus which is mounted in, for example, an automobile, and in which a steering shaft 3 is disposed between a steering member (handle) 1 and a pinion 2. The steering shaft 3 includes a torsion bar 31 provided in the center, an input shaft 32 fixed in the input side (upper) of the torsion bar 31, an output shaft 33 fixed in the output side (lower) of the torsion bar 31, a first target plate 34 fitted outside the input shaft 32, and a second target plate 35 and a third target plate 36 fixed in the output shaft 33. The input shaft 32 and the output shaft 33 are coaxially placed each other but are not directly connected each other and are connected through the torsion bar 31. The first target plate 34, the second target plate 35 and the third target plate 36 are coaxially placed one another. An electric power steering apparatus for applying rotation force of a motor to a steering system including a steering member and steering wheels for performing a steering assist, the power steering apparatus comprising;  The electric power steering apparatus according to claim 1, wherein when the output shaft is dynamically superior to the input shaft, the driving control unit controls the motor so that torque resulting in a time integral value smaller than a time integral value of the torque transmitted between the input and output shafts is generated in a backward assist direction. The electric power steering apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the information obtained by the computation unit includes angular speed and angular acceleration, and the determination made by the driving control unit is made based on either of the angular speed and the angular acceleration. The electric power steering apparatus according to claim 1, wherein a waveform of torque generated in the backward assist direction is a damped oscillatory waveform. An electric power steering apparatus for a steering system including a steering member and steering wheels comprising:  <seperator>EP-1520990-A2<id_sep>subclassF04Csubclass groupF04C23slash00group sectionFsection classF04class subgroupF04C29slash02subgroup subgroupF04C18slash356subgroup Rotary compressor A vertical rotary compressor (10) is constituted by housing an electromotive element (14) and a rotary compression mechanism section (18) driven by the electromotive element (14) in an airtight container (12), wherein an oil separation mechanism (100) for centrifugally separating oil in a refrigerant, which has been compressed by the rotary compression mechanism section (18) and discharged, is disposed in a space between the airtight container (12) and the rotary compression mechanism section (18) in the airtight container.  BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to a rotary compressor constituted by housing a driving element and a rotary compression mechanism section driven by the driving element in an airtight container, and a car air conditioner and a heat pump type water heater using the rotary compressor. This type of rotary compressor has heretofore been, for example, an internal intermediate pressure type multistage (two-stage) compression system rotary compressor including first and second rotary compression elements, and the compressor is constituted of a driving element and a rotary compression mechanism section driven by the driving element in an airtight container. Moreover, a refrigerant gas is drawn in a cylinder on the side of a low pressure chamber via a suction port of the first rotary compression element, compressed by an operation of a roller and a vane to obtain an intermediate pressure, and discharged into the airtight container from the side of a high pressure chamber of the cylinder via a discharge port and a discharge noise silencing chamber. Moreover, the refrigerant gas having the intermediate pressure in the airtight container is drawn in the cylinder on the side of the low pressure chamber from a suction port of the second rotary compression element, compressed by the operation of the roller and vane in a second stage to constitute a high-temperature/pressure refrigerant gas, and discharged to the outside of the compressor from the side of the high pressure chamber via the discharge port and discharge noise silencing chamber. Moreover, a bottom portion in the airtight container is constituted as an oil reservoir, and oil is pumped up from the oil reservoir by an oil pump (oil supply means) attached to one end (lower end) of a rotation shaft, and supplied to a sliding portion of the rotary compression mechanism section to lubricate and seal the portion (see, for example, Japanese Patent No. 2507047, and Japanese Patent Application Laid-Open Nos. 2-294587, 2000-105004, 2000-105005, 2003-74997, and 10-141270). However, the oil mixed in the refrigerant gas compressed by the first rotary compression element as described above is discharged into the airtight container, and separated from the refrigerant gas to a certain degree in the process of movement in a space in the airtight container. However, the oil mixed in the refrigerant gas compressed by the second rotary compression element is discharged as such to the outside of the compressor together with the refrigerant gas. Therefore, there has been a problem that the oil in the oil reservoir runs short and that a sliding performance or sealing property lowers. There has also been a possibility that a trouble is caused in refrigerant circulation in a refrigerant circuit, or the refrigerant circuit is adversely affected otherwise by the oil discharged to the outside of the compressor. Moreover, an oil separator is connected to a piping outside the airtight container to separate the oil from the discharged refrigerant gas, and the oil is devised to be returned to the compressor in this manner, but there has been a problem that an installation space enlarges. A vertical rotary compressor constituted by housing a driving element and a rotary compression mechanism section driven by the driving element in an airtight container, the compressor comprising:  The rotary compressor according to claim 1, wherein the oil separation means is disposed in the vicinity of the rotary compression mechanism section in a space between the airtight container and the rotary compression mechanism section. A rotary compressor constituted by comprising a driving element and a rotary compression element driven by the driving element in an airtight container, the compressor comprising:  The rotary compressor according to claim 3, wherein a cover side discharge noise silencing space which communicates with the discharge noise silencing chamber is formed in the cover. The rotary compressor according to claim 4, wherein the discharge passage is connected to the discharge noise silencing chamber in a state in which the discharge passage is partitioned from the cover side discharge noise silencing space. A multistage compression system rotary compressor comprising: a rotary compression mechanism section constituted of first and second stage compression elements in such a manner that a discharged gas from the first stage compression element is drawn in the second stage compression element; an electric motor which drives the rotary compression mechanism section; an airtight container in which the electric motor and the rotary compression mechanism section are housed and which is filled with a discharged gas refrigerant of the first stage compression element; an oil reservoir portion formed in a bottom part of the airtight container; and an oil supply passage including one end opened in a space portion which is an oil passage formed in an outer periphery of a rotation shaft of the electric motor, and the other end opened in an in-cylinder space portion formed between a compression step end point and a suction step start point in a cylinder wall of the second stage compression element. A two-stage compression system rotary compressor comprising: a rotary compression mechanism section constituted of a low stage side compression element and a high stage side compression element in such a manner that a discharged gas from the low stage side compression element is drawn in the high stage side compression element; an electric motor which drives the rotary compression mechanism section; an airtight container in which the electric motor and the rotary compression mechanism section are housed and which is filled with a discharged gas refrigerant of the low stage side compression element; and a pressure control valve housed in a housing constituting the rotary compression mechanism section, wherein the pressure control valve is constituted to introduce the gas refrigerant in the airtight container into a cylinder of the high stage side compression element, when a discharge pressure of the low stage side compression element lowers to a predetermined value or less and to interrupt the introducing of the gas refrigerant in the airtight container into the cylinder, when the discharge pressure of the low stage side compression element exceeds the predetermined value and rises. The rotary compressor according to claim 7, wherein the pressure control valve comprises: a piston; and a cylinder in which the piston is slidably housed, a resultant force of a low pressure side pressure and an elastic force of a spring, and a gas refrigerant pressure in the airtight container are applied in a facing manner to the piston, the piston is moved in one direction in the cylinder by the resultant force in such a manner as to be capable of introducing the gas refrigerant in the airtight container into the cylinder of the high stage side compression element, when the discharge pressure of the low stage side compression element lowers to the predetermined value or less, and the piston is moved in the other direction by the gas refrigerant pressure in the airtight container against the resultant force to interrupt the introducing of the gas refrigerant in the airtight container into the cylinder, when the discharge pressure of the low stage side compression element exceeds the predetermined value and rises. A car air conditioner comprising: the rotary compressor according to claim 8 or 9, wherein a carbon dioxide gas is used as a refrigerant. A heat pump type water heater comprising: the rotary compressor according to claim 8 or 9, wherein a carbon dioxide gas is used as a refrigerant. <seperator>EP-1570772-A2<id_sep>subclassA47Fsubclass sectionAsection classA47class subgroupA47F3slash04subgroup Refrigerated merchandiser with access for cleaning A refrigerated merchandiser (78) adapted to display refrigerated products (82) includes a case (102) defining a product display area (90), a bottom shelf (118) adapted to support the refrigerated products (82) within the product display area (90), and a container (210) removably coupled with the case (102) at a location below the bottom shelf (118) and adapted to collect debris falling below the bottom shelf (118). The container (210) is removable from the case (102) for cleaning without removing the refrigerated products (82) from the bottom shelf (118).   This invention relates generally to display cases, and more particularly to refrigerated display cases.  In conventional practice, supermarkets and convenience stores are equipped with refrigerated merchandisers, which may be open or provided with doors, for presenting fresh food or beverages to customers while maintaining the fresh food and beverages in a refrigerated environment. Typically, cold, moisture-bearing air is provided to a product display area of the merchandiser by passing an airflow over the heat exchange surface of an evaporator coil, or evaporator. A suitable refrigerant is passed through the evaporator, and as the refrigerant evaporates while passing through the evaporator, heat is absorbed from the air passing through the evaporator. A suitable secondary refrigerant (e.g., glycol) may also be used in place of the evaporative refrigerant. As a result, the temperature of the air passing through the evaporator is lowered for introduction into the product display area of the merchandiser. Such a prior-art refrigerated merchandiser 10 is shown in FIG. 1. The merchandiser 10 includes a case 14 generally defining an interior bottom wall or shelf 18, an interior rear wall 22, and an interior top wall 26. The area bounded by the interior bottom wall 18, interior rear wall 22, and the interior top wall 26 defines a product display area 30, in which the fresh food and /or beverages are stored on one or more shelves 32. The case 14 includes an open front face to allow customers access to the fresh food and/or beverages stored in the case 14. The case 14 also generally defines an exterior bottom wall 34 adjacent the interior bottom shelf 18, an exterior rear wall 38 adjacent the interior rear wall 22, and an exterior top wall 42 adjacent the interior top wall 26. A lower flue 46 is defined between the interior bottom shelf 18 and the exterior bottom wall 34 to allow for substantially horizontal airflow throughout the lower flue 46. The interior bottom shelf 18 includes an opening 50 to communicate with the lower flue 46 to allow surrounding air to be drawn into the lower flue 46 from the product display area 30. A rear flue 54 is defined between the interior and exterior rear walls 22, 38 and is fluidly connected with and adjacent to the lower flue 46. The rear flue 54 allows for substantially vertical airflow throughout the rear flue 54. An upper flue 58 is defined between the interior and exterior top walls 26, 42 and is fluidly connected with and adjacent to the rear flue 54. The upper flue 58 allows for substantially horizontal airflow throughout the upper flue 58. The interior top wall 26 includes an opening 62 to communicate with the upper flue 58 to allow airflow in the upper flue 58 to be discharged from the upper flue 58 and into the product display area 30. When combined, the lower flue 46, the rear flue 54, and the upper flue 58 comprise an air passage separate from the product display area 30. A refrigerated merchandiser adapted to display refrigerated products, the merchandiser comprising:  The refrigerated merchandiser of Claim 1, further comprising a panel movably coupled with the case, the panel being selectively movable to allow access to the container. The refrigerated merchandiser of Claim 2, wherein the panel includes an insulating material. The refrigerated merchandiser of Claim 2, wherein the panel is movable between a stored position, in which the panel is positioned above the container, and a deployed position, in which a lower end of the panel is in contact with a support surface supporting the case. The refrigerated merchandiser of Claim 2, wherein the panel comprises a first panel, the merchandiser further comprising a second panel coupled to the case opposite the first panel, the second panel including a lower end in contact with a support surface supporting the case. The refrigerated merchandiser of Claim 5, wherein a substantially enclosed space is defined by the bottom surface, the support surface, and the first and second panels, the space being selectively accessible through the first panel to allow cleaning of the support surface beneath the case and to have access to a fan positioned in the space without removing the refrigerated products from the lower shelf. The refrigerated merchandiser of Claim 1, further comprising:  A refrigerated merchandiser adapted to display refrigerated products, the merchandiser comprising:  The refrigerated merchandiser of Claim 8, wherein the space is selectively accessible to allow cleaning of the support surface beneath the case. The refrigerated merchandiser of Claim 9, wherein at least one of the first and second insulating panels is movably coupled to the case to allow access to the space. The refrigerated merchandiser of Claim 10, further comprising a fan positioned in the space, wherein the fan is accessible via the movable one of the first and second insulating panels for maintenance without removing the refrigerated products from the bottom shelf. The refrigerated merchandiser of Claim 8, further comprising a container removably coupled with the case at a location below the bottom shelf and adapted to collect debris falling below the bottom shelf. The refrigerated merchandiser of Claim 12, wherein at least one of the first and second insulating panels is movably coupled to the case to allow access to the container without removing the refrigerated products from the bottom shelf. The refrigerated merchandiser of Claim 8; wherein at least one of the first and second insulating panels is movably coupled to the case between a stored position, in which the movable one of the first and second insulating panels is positioned above the container, and a deployed position, in which the lower end of the movable one of the first and second insulating panels is in contact with the support surface. A refrigerated merchandiser adapted to display refrigerated products, the merchandiser comprising:  The refrigerated merchandiser of Claim 15, wherein the panel is movable between a stored position, in which the panel is oriented substantially parallel with the bottom shelf, and a deployed position, in which a lower end of the panel is in contact with a support surface supporting the case. The refrigerated merchandiser of Claim 16, wherein the panel includes insulating material. The refrigerated merchandiser of Claim 15, further comprising a container removably coupled with the case at a location below the bottom shelf and adapted to collect debris falling below the bottom, shelf. The refrigerated merchandiser of Claim 18, wherein the panel is selectively movable to allow access to the container without removing the refrigerated products from the bottom shelf. The refrigerated merchandiser of Claim 15, wherein the panel comprises a first panel including a lower end in contact with a support surface supporting the case, the merchandiser further comprising a second panel coupled to the case opposite the first panel, the second panel including a lower end in contact with the support surface. The refrigerated merchandiser of Claim 20, wherein the first and second panels each include insulating material. The refrigerated merchandiser of Claim 20, wherein the bottom shelf, the support surface, and the first and second panels define a substantially enclosed space that is selectively accessible to allow cleaning of the support surface beneath the case. The refrigerated merchandiser of Claim 22, wherein the first panel is movable to allow access to the space. <seperator>EP-1241694-A2<id_sep>subgroupH01H25slash04subgroup sectionHsection subclassH01Hsubclass sectionGsection classH01class groupG05G9slash00group subgroupG05G9slash047subgroup subclassG05Gsubclass subgroupH01H25slash06subgroup classG05class groupH01H25slash00group Multidirectional input device switched via two movable contacts The device comprises a casing having a bottom wall with a common contact; a first fixed contact held by the casing; and a first movable contact which can be brought into or out of contact with the first fixed contact; a handle which can be tilted in many different directions to generate an electric signal; and a second movable contact which touches the common contact. The first movable contact has a contact area which touches the second movable contact. When the handle is tilted, the first fixed contact and the first movable contact touch each other to establish continuity between the first fixed contact and the common contact through the first movable contact, the contact area and the second movable contact, generating a first electric signal.  The present invention relates to a general-purpose push switch used as a button in electronic equipment such as a cellular phone or a multidirectional input device for operation of electronic equipment such as a cellular phone. Regarding the drawing for a conventional multidirectional input device, Fig. 18 shows the main part of a conventional multidirectional input device. A case 50 is a plastic box with an opening at the top. It has an octagonal bottom wall 50a; projections 50d spaced at regular intervals which protrude upwards from the bottom wall 50a; a side wall 50b standing upwards from the side edge of the bottom wall 50a; and notches 50c made at intervals of approximately 90 degrees in the side wall 50b. A first fixed contact 51 consists of a contact part 51a located at the top end and a terminal 51b extending outwards from the contact part 51a; the first fixed contact 51 is embedded in the bottom wall 50a with the contact part 51a exposed in the center of the bottom wall 50a. A common contact 52 consists of a semicircular arch contact part 52a and a terminal 52b extending outwards from the contact part 52a. This common contact 52 is embedded in the bottom wall 50a with the bottom wall 50a exposed on the surface of the bottom wall 50a, surrounding the contact part 51a of the first fixed contact 51. A first movable contact 53 is made of metal. It has the shape of a dome and rests on the bottom wall 50a with its periphery guided by the projections 50d. With the first movable contact 53 in place, its side edge 53a remains in contact with the contact part 52a of the common contact 52 and its top 53b faces the contact part 51a of the first fixed contact 51. The first fixed contact 51, common contact 52 and first movable contact 53 constitute a push switch S. A guide 54 is made of plastic and has virtually the shape of a dome. It has a base 54b with a through hole 54a at the top; an arm 54c supported on one side, extending towards the center from the base 54b; and a spacer 54d engaged with the arm 54c. This guide 54 is fixed by the base 54b engaged with the projections 50d. Once the guide 54 is fixed in this way, the arm 54c faces the top of the first movable contact 53. A coil spring 55 is made of a conductive metal. It stands on the bottom wall 50a near the side wall 50b, surrounding the first movable contact 53. A cover 60 is an octagonal flat plate with a through hole 60a in the center. A second fixed contact 61 consists of a contact part 61a at the top end and a terminal 61b bent at right angles from the contact part 61a. The second fixed contact 61 is embedded in the cover 60 every approximately 45 degrees with the terminal 61b exposed on the lower face of the cover 60. The cover 60 and the second fixed contact 61 are arranged so as to cover the opening of the case 50, and a U-shaped metal leg 62 is used to fix them between the case 50 and the leg 62. A multidirectional input device comprising:  The multidirectional input device according to Claim 1,    wherein the bottom wall of the casing has a second fixed contact and the second movable contact can be brought into contact with the second fixed contact when pressed, and    wherein, when the handle is tilted, the first electric signal is generated and the second fixed contact and second movable contact touch each other to establish continuity between the common contact and the second fixed contact, generating a second electric signal. The multidirectional input device according to Claim 1 or 2, wherein the casing has an interface which is facing and opposite the bottom wall with the first movable contact between the bottom wall and it, and wherein, when the handle is in its neutral position, it is pressed against a lower face of the interface due to an elastic force of the second movable contact. The multidirectional input device according to Claim 3, wherein the handle or the interface has an axially protruding projection, and wherein, when the interface and handle touch each other through the projection and with the handle in its neutral position, the first movable contact is out of contact with the first fixed contact. The multidirectional input device according to Claim 4, wherein the first movable contact has the projection (ridge) opposite the interface. The multidirectional input device according to Claim 4 or 5, wherein, when the handle is tilted on the projection as a first fulcrum, the first fixed contact and first movable contact touch each other, and wherein, when it is tilted on the point of contact between the first fixed contact and the first movable contact as a second fulcrum, the second fixed contact and second movable contact touch each other. The multidirectional input device according to any of Claims 3 to 6, wherein the interface is a metal plate which is held and joined together with the first fixed contact by a plastic support, and wherein the handle has escapes through which convexes on the bottom wall side of the support can come and go when it is tilted. The multidirectional input device according to any of Claims 1 to 7, wherein the casing comprises a lower case having the bottom wall, and the support as an upper case separate from the lower case, and wherein the first fixed contact fitted to the upper case is fixed on the lower case to join the lower case and the upper case together. The multidirectional input device according to any of Claims 2 to 8, wherein, when the handle is pushed axially, the second fixed contact and the second movable contact touch each other to establish continuity between the common contact and the second fixed contact. The multidirectional input device according to any of Claims 2 to 9, wherein the second movable contact comprises a dome-shaped leaf spring, wherein the contact area of the first movable contact on the handle is semispherical, protruding towards the bottom wall, and wherein an outer semispherical surface of the contact area touches the second movable contact. The multidirectional input device according to any of Claims 2 to 10, wherein the second movable contact comprises a dome-shaped leaf spring, wherein the contact area of the first movable contact on the handle has a flat portion facing the second movable contact, and wherein the flat portion touches a top of the second movable contact. The multidirectional input device according to any of Claims 2 to 11, wherein the second movable contact comprises a dome-shaped leaf spring, wherein the contact area of the first movable contact on the handle has a square or ring ridge protruding towards the second movable contact, and wherein the ridge touches the top of the second movable contact. The multidirectional input device according to any of Claims 2 to 12, wherein the second movable contact comprises a dome-shaped leaf spring, wherein the contact area of the first movable contact on the handle has plural convexes protruding towards the second movable contact, and wherein the convexes touch the top of the second movable contact. <seperator>EP-1457500-A1<id_sep>classC12class subclassA61Ksubclass classG01class subclassG01Nsubclass subclassA01Ksubclass subgroupG01N33slash68subgroup classA61class sectionGsection groupA61K48slash00group subgroupA01K67slash027subgroup subclassC07Ksubclass classC07class subgroupC12N15slash85subgroup groupA61K39slash00group subgroupC07K14slash47subgroup subclassC12Nsubclass classA01class sectionCsection sectionAsection subgroupC07K14slash435subgroup Soluble hybrid prion proteins and their use in the diagnosis, prevention and treatment of transmissible spongiform encephalophathies The present invention relates to a soluble hybrid protein, comprising at least a first polypeptide sequence derived from a prion protein PrP FIELD OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to a soluble hybrid protein, comprising at least a first polypeptide sequence derived from a prion protein PrP BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSEs) are fatal neurodegenerative diseases that affect mammals including cattle (BSE), human (Creutzfeldt-Jakob-Disease) and sheep (scrapie). The disease is characterized by the accumulation of an abnormal partially protease-resistant form (PrP-res or PrP A wealth of evidence indicates that PrP The open reading frame encoding PrP Most theoretical models of prion amplification predict that PrP Cell-free systems indicate that binding of PrP Technical obstacles have prevented the demonstration of physical interaction between PrP It is one objective of the present invention to provide new diagnostic agents suitable for the detailed quantitative and qualitative analysis of PrP Furthermore, there is an urgent need for efficiently and safely screening TSEs in the preclinical state by detecting low concentrations of PrP In particular there is a need for compounds for the prevention and treatment of TSE's that inhibit the formation of PrP Disclosure of the invention One aspect of the present invention provides a soluble hybrid protein, comprising at least The first polypeptide sequence according to the invention is defined herein as any prion protein PrP The term "functional derivative" of a prion protein PrP % Identity of mutually related polypeptides can be determined by means of known procedures. As a rule, special computer programs with algorithms taking account of the special requirements are used. Preferred procedures for the determination of % identity firstly generate the greatest agreement between the sequences studied. Computer programs for the determination of the identity between two sequences include, but are not limited to, the GCG program package, including GAP (Devereux J et al., Nucleic Acids Research 12 (12): 387 (1984); Genetics Computer Group University of Wisconsin, Madison (WI); BLASTP, BLASTN and FASTA (Altschul S et al., J. Molec. Biol. 215: 403-410 (1990)). The BLAST X program can be obtained from the National Centre for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) and from other sources (BLAST Handbook, Altschul S et al., NCB NLM NIH Bethesda MD 20894; Altschul S et al., J. Mol. 215: 403-410 (1990)). The well-known Smith Waterman algorithm can also be used for the determination of % identity. Preferred parameters for the sequence comparison include the following: The GAP program is also suitable for use with the above parameters. The above parameters are the standard parameters (default parameters) for amino acid sequence comparisons, in which gaps at the ends do not decrease the % identity value. With very small sequences compared to the reference sequence, it can further be necessary to increase the expectancy value to up to 100,000 and in some cases to reduce the word length (word size) to down to 2. Further model algorithms, gap opening penalties, gap extension penalties and comparison matrices including those named in the Program Handbook, Wisconsin Package, Version 9, September 1997, can be used. The choice will depend on the comparison to be performed and further on whether the comparison is performed between sequence pairs; where GAP or Best Fit are preferred, or between one sequence and a large sequence database, where FASTA or BLAST are preferred. A soluble hybrid protein, comprising at least  The hybrid protein of claim 1, which is resistant to conversion to the PrPsc form when binding to PrPsc. The hybrid protein of claim 1 or 2, wherein at least two of said hybrid proteins form multimeric hybrid proteins, preferably dimers or pentamers, more preferably dimers. The hybrid protein according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the second polypeptide sequence is capable of binding to at least one further second polypeptide sequence of at least one further hybrid protein to form multimeric hybrid proteins. The hybrid protein according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the first polypeptide sequence does not comprise the GPI-(Glycosyl-phosphatidyl-Inositol) residue and/or the carboxy-terminal signal sequence of the wild type PrPc prion protein. A multimeric hybrid protein, comprising dimers or oligomers of any one of the hybrid proteins according to any one of claims 1 to 5, preferably dimers and pentamers. The multimeric hybrid protein according to claim 6, wherein the first and the second polypeptide sequence of the hybrid protein are derived from the same or different species. The multimeric hybrid protein according to claim 6 or 7, wherein the monomeric units of the multimeric hybrid proteins are derived from the same or different species. The hybrid protein according to any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the first poly peptide sequence is a full-length prion protein (PrPc). The hybrid protein according to any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein said second polypeptide sequence is derived from an immunoglobulin. The hybrid protein of claim 10, wherein in the second polypeptide the binding sites for Fcγ receptors and/or complement are inactivated. The hybrid protein according to any one of claims 1 to 11, wherein said second polypeptide sequence is derived from an immunoglobulin heavy chain constant region. The hybrid protein of claim 12, wherein said second polypeptide sequence is derived from a mammalian immunoglobulin gamma heavy chain, preferably from the human immunoglobulin gamma heavy chain. The hybrid protein of claim 12, wherein said second polypeptide sequence is derived from a mammalian immunoglobulin mµ heavy chain, preferably from the human immunoglobulin mµ heavy chain. The hybrid protein of any one of claims 1 to 14, wherein said second polypeptide sequence is fused directly to the carboxy-terminal side of the first polypeptide sequence. The hybrid protein according to any one of claims 1 to 15, wherein the first polypeptide sequence is a functional derivative of the human prion protein (PrPc) or a functional fragment thereof, comprising the PrPsc binding domain of human PrPc that is preferably at least 50%, more preferably at least 80%, and most preferably at least 90% identical to the PrPsc binding domain of the human naturally occurring, fully functional, wild-type prion protein PrPc, and retains at least some, preferably at least 20%, more preferably at least 50%, and most preferably at least 90% of the specific binding capability to a PrPsc-protein of the PrPsc binding domain of the wild-type prion protein The hybrid protein according to claim 16, wherein the functional derivative of the wild-type prion protein is a functional fragment, variant, analog, chemical derivative, or peptidomimetic of the wild-type prion protein or a functional fragment thereof. A hybrid protein according to any one of claims 1 to 17, wherein said protein is bound to a solid support. Use of a hybrid protein according to any one of claims 1 to 18 for the diagnosis of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSEs). Diagnostic kits for use in the diagnosis of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSEs) and containing a protein according to any one of claim 1 to 18 in combination with further reagents, such as buffers, and working instructions. Process for the detection of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSEs) comprising  Process for the identification and/or isolation of molecules capable of binding to PrPsc and/or PrPc comprising  Use of a hybrid protein according to any one of claims 1 to 18 for the identification of molecules capable of binding to PrPsc and/or PrPc. Nucleic acid encoding a hybrid protein according to any one of claims 1 to 18. Vector comprising a nucleic acid according to claim 24. Host cell, comprising a nucleic acid according to claim 24 and/or a vector according to claim 25. Use of a hybrid protein according to any one of claims 2 to 18, a nucleic acid encoding a hybrid protein according to any one of claims 2 to 18, a vector, and/or a host cell comprising a nucleic acid encoding a hybrid protein according to any one of claims 2 to 18 for the preparation of a medicament for the prevention and/or treatment of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSEs). A pharmaceutical composition comprising a hybrid protein according to any one of claims 2 to 18, a nucleic acid encoding a hybrid protein according to any one of claims 2 to 18, a vector, and/or a host cell comprising a nucleic acid encoding a hybrid protein according to any one of claims 2 to 18, and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The pharmaceutical composition according to claim 28 for the use in gene therapy. A process for producing a hybrid protein according to any one of claims 1 to 18 comprising the step of culturing a host cell according to claim 26 under conditions that allow for the expression of said hybrid protein. A transgenic animal, preferably a transgenic mouse, stably expressing a hybrid protein according to any one of claims 1 to 18. Bone marrow of a transgenic animal according to claim 31. The use of bone marrow according to claim 32 for the preparation of a medicament for the treatment of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSEs). A composition comprising a PrPsc and a hybrid protein according to any one of claims 1 to 18. The composition according to claim 34, wherein PrPsc is bound to the hybrid protein. The composition according to claim 35, wherein PrPsc is noncovalently bound to the hybrid protein A carrier comprising a hybrid protein according to any one of claims 1 to 18. The carrier according to claim 37 which is selected from magnetic beads, filter stripes, microtiter plates, non-magnetic beads, plasmon surface resonance plates, microarray plates, liquid carriers undergoing phase transition to solid, and combination thereof. An in vitro process of removing PrPsc from biological material, comprising the step of contacting the material with a hybrid protein according to any one of claims 1 to 18 and removing PrPsc bound to the hybrid protein. Use of a hybrid protein according to any one of claims 1 to 18, and/or a composition according to any one of claims 34 to 36, and/or a carrier according to claim 37 or 38 for removing and/or inactivating PrPsc from a biological material. <seperator>EP-1662606-A1<id_sep>subclassH01Qsubclass sectionHsection classH01class subgroupH01Q9slash04subgroup subgroupH01Q1slash24subgroup subgroupH01Q1slash44subgroup Built-in antenna apparatus of portable wireless terminal A portable wireless terminal with a main body having a main board, and a battery pack detachably mounted in the main body and used as power supply means for the terminal, wherein the battery pack includes an upper case frame; a lower case frame coupled with the upper case frame to provide a predetermined installation space therebetween; a battery cell having a conductive outer surface fixed on the installation space; and a radiator fixed to an inner surface of the upper case frame, and having a feed pin and a ground pin that are exposed on the lower case frame along a detour route around the battery cell. Since the radiator is not installed inside the main body but inside the battery pack, an antenna mounting space can be removed from the main body, which contributes to a slim profile and a lightweight feature of the wireless terminal.  The present invention relates to a portable wireless terminal having a built-in antenna module, and more particularly, to a built-in antenna apparatus for a portable wireless terminal, which is designed with a planar inverted-F antenna (PIFA) and contributes to a slim and lightweight profile of the wireless terminal. Recently, as portable wireless terminals, such as cellular phones, wireless notebooks, and terminals for a Personal Communication System (PCS), Digital Cellular System (DCS), Global Positioning System (GPS) and Personal Digital Assistant (PDA),have become increasingly popular, terminals with various new functions and designs have been introduced. The terminals are developed with small-sized, slim, and lightweight features in mind and at the same time are focused on providing a variety of functions to satisfy popular demand. Therefore, the design objectives for the terminals are focused on volume reduction while maintaining or improving the functionality. Today, rod antennas (also known as whip antennas) and helical antennas are widely used, owing to their good omnidirectional properties. However, the rod antenna and the helical antenna, which protrude outward from the terminal, are easy to break when dropped. These factors degrade the external appearance and limit the portability of the terminal. Therefore, an antenna installed within the terminal (called a built-in antenna, an internal antenna, or an intenna) has had widespread use in recent times. Various efforts are being made to improve the performance and productivity of the built-in antenna. There are two types of built-in antennas in common use: a planar inverted F antenna (PIFA) module having a feed point and a ground point; and a chip antenna module, suitable for mounting on a ceramic dielectric substance and having a copper coil whose turns are adjusted according to the operating frequency of the terminal. FIG. 1 is a perspective view of a prior art portable wireless terminal 100 and shows a slide type portable wireless terminal. Although the prior art exemplarily shows the slide type portable wireless terminal, it is not limited thereto but may be applied to a variety of terminals with a built-in antenna (e.g., a folder type terminal, a bar type terminal, a flip type terminal). Referring to FIG. 1, the portable wireless terminal 100 includes a main body 110 and a slide body 120, which is slidable in a lengthwise direction of the wireless terminal 100 by a predetermined length. The slide body 120 is provided on a front side thereof with a display device 121. The display device 121 may be a color wide Liquid Crystal Display (LCD) module, preferably a touch screen panel. The display device 121 also includes a speakerphone device 122 installed at an upper side thereof, and at least one keypad assembly 123 installed at a lower side thereof. Preferably, the keypad assembly may include a navigation key button. When the slide body 120 is opened on the main body 110, another keypad assembly 111 having a plurality of key buttons, preferably digital key buttons (in a 3x4 matrix), is exposed. In addition, another microphone device 112 is located at a lower side of the keypad assembly 111. A portable wireless terminal provided with a main body having a main board, and a battery pack detachably mounted in the main body and used as power supply means for the wireless terminal, the battery pack comprising:  The portable wireless terminal of claim 1, wherein the feed pin and the ground pin are respectively electrically connected to a feed means and a ground means, mounted on the main board of the main body when the battery pack is installed in the wireless terminal. The portable wireless terminal of claim 2, wherein the main board comprises a feed connector and a ground connector protruding on a battery pack mounting surface, the feed connector being electrically connected with an RF connector of the main board and the ground connector being electrically connected with a ground of the main board such that the feed connector and the ground connector are respectively electrically connected with the feed pin and the ground pin. The portable wireless terminal of claim 3, wherein the ground connector is electrically grounded to the conductive outer surface of the battery cell. The portable wireless terminal of claim 4, wherein the ground pin of the radiator is electrically connected with the conductive outer surface of the battery cell. The portable wireless terminal of claim 5, wherein the battery cell further comprises a plate-type conductive metal attached on the outer surface of the battery cell. The portable wireless terminal of claim 6, wherein the conductive metal is attached on a surface which is farthest from the radiator. The portable wireless terminal of claim 5, wherein the battery cell has an outer surface made of a metal material. A built-in antenna of a portable wireless terminal provided with a main body having a main board, and a battery pack detachably mounted in the main body and used as power supply means for the terminal, the battery pack comprising:  The built-in antenna of claim 9, wherein the feed pin and the ground pin are respectively electrically connected to a feed means and a ground means, mounted on the main board of the main body when the battery pack is installed in the wireless terminal. The built-in antenna of claim 10, wherein the main board comprises a feed connector and a ground connector protruding on a battery pack mounting surface, the feed connector being electrically connected with an RF connector of the main board and the ground connector being electrically connected with a ground of the main board such that the feed connector and the ground connector are respectively electrically connected with the feed pin and the ground pin. The built-in antenna of claim 11, wherein the ground connector is electrically grounded to the conductive outer surface of the battery cell. The built-in antenna of claim 12, wherein the ground pin of the radiator is electrically connected with the conductive outer surface of the battery cell. A battery pack for supplying power to a portable wireless terminal, the battery pack being detachably mounted to the terminal, comprising:  <seperator>EP-1503166-A1<id_sep>groupF41B11slash00group subgroupF41B11slash12subgroup sectionFsection subgroupF41B11slash26subgroup subclassF41Bsubclass subgroupF41B11slash32subgroup classF41class subgroupF41B11slash06subgroup Gas powered toy gun A gas powered toy gun comprises a gas supplying portion (32) from which a gas leading passage (33, 35) extends, a valve (34) for controlling the gas leading passage (33,35) to be open and closed selectively, a slider (8) provided to be movable to a barrel portion (2) connected with a bullet holding chamber (4) and provided with a pressure receiving portion (16A) for moving backward in order to supply the bullet holding chamber (4) with a sham bullet (BB), a movable member (17) having an inner space formed therein and provided to be movable in the slider (8) so as to be put selectively in a first state wherein the inner space is coupled with the gas leading passage (33,35) and in a second state wherein the inner space is removed from the gas leading passage (33, 35) for guiding gas flowing through the gas leading passage (33,35) to the bullet holding chamber (4) through the inner space so that the sham bullet (BB) put in the bullet holding chamber (4) is shot with pressure of gas acting thereon and for guiding further the gas flowing through the gas leading passage (33, 35) to the pressure receiving portion (16A) through the inner space so that the slider (8) is moved backward with pressure of gas acting on the pressure receiving portion (16A), and gas flow adjusting means (44,50;44,70;76) provided in the inner space formed in the movable member (17) for adjusting the amount of gas flowing through the inner space to the pressure receiving portion (16A) in response to pressure of gas led into the inner space.  BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Field of the Invention The present invention relates generally to a gas powered toy gun; and more particularly to an improvement in a toy gun, in which the shooting of a sham bullet put in a bullet holding chamber and the backward movement of a slider for supplying the bullet holding chamber with the next sham bullet are carried out by means of pressure of gas. Description of the Prior Art A toy gun which utilizes gas pressure, namely, pressure brought about by air or gas other than air is usually made to imitate a real gun in not only its color and shape but also its apparent operations. As one of these toy guns utilizing gas pressure, it has been proposed a gas powered toy gun in which a pressure accumulating chamber is formed in a grip to be filled with compressed gas and a gas passage extending from the pressure accumulating chamber is opened, by means of the rotation of a hammer linked with a trigger to operate in response to the movement of the trigger, to supply a bullet holding chamber with the gas discharging from the pressure accumulating chamber to be used for shooting a sham bullet put in the bullet holding chamber, or a pressure accumulating chamber is formed in a grip to be filled with compressed gas and the gas discharging from the pressure accumulating chamber is supplied through a gas passage extending from the pressure accumulating chamber to be used not only for shooting a sham bullet put in a bullet holding chamber but also for causing a slider provided to be movable along a barrel to move backward so that the bullet holding chamber having been made empty is supplied with the next sham bullet by the slider moving forward after its backward movement, as shown in, for example, Japanese patent application published before examination under publication number HEI 7-103694. The gas powered toy gun thus proposed previously is provided with, in addition to the pressure accumulating chamber formed in the grip, the gas passage extending from the pressure accumulating chamber and the slider, a movable member in which a bullet shooting gas passage, a bullet supplying gas passage, a center space connecting the bullet shooting gas passage and the bullet supplying gas passage with each other, and a common gas passage extending from the center space are formed. In such a gas powered toy gun, when the gas passage extending from the pressure accumulating chamber is made open by means of the rotation of a hammer linked with a trigger to operate in response to the movement of the trigger, the gas discharging from the pressure accumulating chamber is led through the gas passage made open into the movable member. The gas led in the movable member flows into one or both of the bullet shooting gas passage and the bullet supplying gas passage in accordance with the position of a gas passage controller contained to be movable in the movable member. The gas flowing into the bullet shooting gas passage in operative to cause pressure of gas to act on the sham bullet put in the bullet holding chamber for shooting the same. The gas flowing into the bullet supplying gas passage is operative to cause pressure of gas to act on the slider for moving the same backward. With the backward movement of the slider, the movable member is also moved backward together with the slider. Although the gas passage extending from the pressure accumulating chamber is shifted to be closed from open with the backward movement of the slider so that the supply of the gas from the pressure accumulating chamber is stopped, the slider continues to move backward with inertia after the gas passage is shifted to be closed so as to reach to the most retreated position. Then, the slider turns to move forward with energizing force exerted by a spring when having arrived at the most retreated position. With the forward movement of the slider, the movable member is also moved forward together with the slider. With the backward and forward movements of the movable member performed as mentioned above, one of sham bullets contained in a magazine is pushed up to be held at the upper end portion of the magazine and then the sham bullet held at the upper end portion of the magazine is carried toward the bullet holding chamber, so that the bullet holding chamber which has been made empty is supplied with the next sham bullet. A gas powered toy gun comprising a gas supplying portion (32) from which a gas leading passage (33,35) extends, a valve (34) for controlling the gas leading passage (33,35) to be open and closed selectively, a slider (8) provided to be movable to a barrel portion (2) connected with a bullet holding chamber (4) in which a sham bullet (BB) is put and provided with a pressure receiving portion (16A) fixed to be positioned at the back of the barrel portion (2) for moving backward in order to supply the bullet holding chamber (4) with the sham bullet (BB), and a movable member (17) having an inner space formed therein and provided to be movable in the slider (8) so as to be put selectively in a first state wherein the inner space is coupled with the gas leading passage (33,35) and in a second state wherein the inner space i s removed from the gas leading passage (33, 35), sa i d movable member (17) being operative to guide gas flowing through the gas leading passage (33, 35) to the bullet holding chamber (4) through the inner space so that the sham bullet (BB) put in the bullet holding chamber (4) is shot with gas pressure acting thereon and to guide further the gas flowing through the gas leading passage (33,35) to the pressure receiving portion (16A) through the inner space so that the slider (8) is moved backward with gas pressure acting on the pressure receiving portion (16A) in the first state when the valve (34) is operative to control the gas leading passage (33,35) to be open, characterized by gas flow adjusting means (44, 50;44, 70;76) provided in the inner space formed in the movable member (17) for adjusting the amount of gas flowing through the inner space to the pressure receiving portion (16A) in response to pressure of gas led into the inner space through the gas leading passage (33, 35). A gas powered toy gun according to claim 1, wherein said gas flow adjusting means (44, 50;44, 70;76) is operative to limit the amount of gas flowing through the inner space to the pressure receiving portion (16A) when the pressure of gas led into the inner space through the gas leading passage (33,35) has a value not less than a predetermined value. A gas powered toy gun according to claim 2, wherein said gas flow adjusting means (44,50:44,70) is constituted with a fixed member (50:70) provided in a part of the inner space through which the gas flows to the pressure receiving portion (16A) and a gas flow limiting member (44) provided to be movable in the inner space for coming close to and going away from the pressure receiving portion (16A) selectively. A gas powered toy gun according to claim 3, wherein said gas flow limiting member (44) is forced by a resilient member (49) to be put in tendency of going away from the pressure receiving portion (16A) and moved with pressure of gas acting thereon to come close to the pressure receiving portion (16A) against energizing force exerted by the resilient member (49) so that the amount of gas flowing to the pressure receiving portion (16A) is limited by the gas flow limiting member (44) and the fixed member (50;70) when the pressure of gas led into the inner space has the value not less than the predetermined value. A gas powered toy gun according to claim 3, wherein said fixed member (50;70) constituting the gas flow adjusting means (44, 50:44, 70) is incorporated with the movable member (17) in which the inner space is formed. A gas powered toy gun according to claim 2, wherein said gas flow adjusting means (76) is constituted to include a movable gas passage controlling member (76) provided in a part of the inner space through which the gas flows to the pressure receiving portion (16A). A gas powered toy gun according to claim 6, wherein said movable gas passage controlling member (76) is provided with a resilient member (80) to be swingable in a part of the inner space through which the gas flows to the pressure receiving portion (16A) and moved with pressure of gas acting thereon to swing against energizing force exerted by the resilient member (80) so as to control a gas passage in the inner space through which the gas flows to the pressure receiving portion (16A) when the pressure of gas led into the inner space has the value not less than the predetermined value. <seperator>EP-1277996-A2<id_sep>groupF15B13slash00group subclassF15Bsubclass subgroupF15B13slash04subgroup subgroupF16K3slash24subgroup subgroupF15B13slash044subgroup classC03class subgroupC03B9slash40subgroup sectionFsection groupC03B9slash00group subclassC03Bsubclass classF15class sectionCsection classF16class subclassF16Ksubclass subgroupF16K11slash065subgroup groupF16K3slash00group subgroupF16K31slash06subgroup subgroupF16K11slash07subgroup Proportional valve assembly, particularly for supplying compressed air on a glassware molding machine In a proportional valve assembly (1), particularly for supplying compressed air on a glassware molding machine (3), a tubular body (18), having an axis (6) and air inlet (19) and outlet (20) ports, houses a slide member (22) which is slid axially along the axis (6), to open and close the inlet and outlet ports, by a linear actuator (9), on the one hand, and, on the other, by the reaction exerted by an elastic body (26) and the compressed air; the elastic body (26) being spaced apart from the slide member (22) and connected to the slide member by a relatively moving device (37).  The present invention relates to a proportional valve assembly, particularly for supplying compressed air on a glassware molding machine. In the glass industry, hollow glass articles are produced on so-called I.S. molding machines, which comprise a number of air-powered operating units, at least some of which are supplied and controlled by respective proportional valve assemblies. In most applications, the proportional valves comprise an elongated outer jacket in which the inlet, outlet, and exhaust ports are formed; and a sleeve housed in the jacket and comprising a number of projections mating in fluidtight manner with the inner surface of the jacket. To open/close the various ports, the sleeve is normally moved axially inside the jacket by an electric linear actuator, on the one hand, and, on the other, by a reaction defined by the combined action of a spiral return spring and the pressurized fluid supplied by the valve assembly. The spring normally comprises an end portion inserted inside a seat in the jacket; and an opposite end portion fitted to an axial projection integral with the sleeve. Though widely used on conventional molding machines, known valve assemblies of the above type fail to meet the requirements of modern glassware molding machines in terms of response speed and repeat positioning. This is due to the reaction exerted on the sleeve not always being purely axial, and in many cases - due to machining, positioning and assembly tolerances and/or deformation under load - comprising a radial component varying uncontrollably in direction and intensity. The presence of components crosswise to the traveling direction of the sleeve affects the slide resistance of the sleeve inside the jacket, and produces localized wear which impairs response time, sealing, and operating precision, and which obviously increases alongside an increase in fluid supply pressure. It is an object of the present invention to provide a proportional valve assembly designed to provide a straightforward, low-cost solution to the above drawbacks. According to the present invention, there is provided a proportional valve assembly, particularly for supplying compressed air on a glassware molding machine, the assembly comprising a tubular body having an axis and inlet and outlet ports for an operating fluid; at least one movable slide member housed in said tubular body; a linear actuator for exerting control action on said slide member; and reaction means for exerting on the slide member an opposing action in opposition to the control action, and for moving said slide member along said axis; characterized by also comprising relatively moving means interposed between said reaction means and said slide member. The invention will be described with reference to the accompanying drawing showing a section of a preferred embodiment of the proportional valve assembly according to the teachings of the present invention. Number 1 in the accompanying drawing indicates a proportional valve assembly for supplying compressed air to an operating unit 2 of a machine 3 for molding hollow glass articles. Valve assembly 1 comprises an outer casing 4 in turn comprising a cylindrical tubular body 5 having a longitudinal axis 6, and two opposite axial openings 7 and 8; opening 7 is closed in fluidtight manner by a known electric linear actuator 9 extending coaxially with axis 6; and opening 8 is closed in fluidtight manner by an end cap 10 connected integrally to body 5 by a number of screws 11. A proportional valve assembly (1), particularly for supplying compressed air on a glassware molding machine (3), the assembly (1) comprising a tubular body (18) having an axis (6) and inlet (19) and outlet (20) ports for an operating fluid; at least one movable slide member (22) housed in said tubular body (18); a linear actuator (9) for exerting control action on said slide member; and reaction means (26)(27) for exerting on the slide member an opposing action in opposition to the control action, and for moving said slide member (22) along said axis (6); characterized by also comprising relatively moving means (37) interposed between said reaction means (26)(27) and said slide member (22). An assembly as claimed in Claim 1, characterized in that said relatively moving means (37) comprise a push member (28) separated from said slide member (22); and coupling means (38) for connecting the push member to said slide member (22). An assembly as claimed in Claim 2, characterized by comprising guide means (30) or guiding said push member (28) along said axis (6). An assembly as claimed in Claim 2 or 3, characterized in that said coupling means comprise a single coupling body (38) distinct from said push member (28) and said slide member (22). An assembly as claimed in one of Claims 2 to 4,characterized in that said relatively moving means (37) comprise self-leveling articulated joint means (41)(48). An assembly as claimed in Claim 5, characterized in that said articulated joint means comprise a first (41) and a second (48) spherical-headed articulated joint. An assembly as claimed in Claim 6, characterized in that said first (41) and said second (48) spherical-headed articulated joint are spaced apart along said axis (6). An assembly as claimed in Claim 6 or 7, characterized in that said first (41) and said second (48) spherical-headed articulated joint are arranged in series. An assembly as claimed in one of Claims 6 to 8, characterized in that said first (41) and said second (48) spherical-headed articulated joint comprise respective spherical heads (39)(47) having respective different radii of curvature. An assembly as claimed in Claim 9, characterized in that said reaction means comprise elastic reaction means (26); and in that, of said spherical-headed articulated joints (41)(48), the articulated joint (48) closer to said elastic reaction means (26) is the one with the smaller-radius spherical surface. An assembly as claimed in Claim 9 or 10, characterized in that said spherical heads (39)(47) are connected integrally to each other. An assembly as claimed in Claim 11, characterized in that said spherical heads (39)(47) form part of a body (38) formed in one piece. An assembly as claimed in Claim 11 or 12, characterized in that said push member (28) houses at least partly at least one (39) (47) of said spherical heads (39) (47). An assembly as claimed in Claim 13, characterized in that said push member (28) houses at least one (39) of said spherical heads (39)(47) with a radial and axial clearance. An assembly as claimed in Claim 13 or 14, characterized in that said push member (28) houses at least partly both said spherical heads (39)(47). An assembly as claimed in any one of Claims 6 to 9, characterized in that said spherical-headed articulated joints have respective straight conical flared seats (40)(35). An assembly as claimed in any one of Claims 2 to 16, characterized in that said push member (28) is defined by an end surface (27) on which said fluid exerts an opposing action in opposition to said control action. An assembly as claimed in Claim 17, characterized in that said push member (28) has an outside diameter smaller than the inside diameter of said tubular body (18). A glassware molding machine (3) comprising at least one operating unit (2), and pneumatic supply and control means for supplying said operating unit (2) with a pressurized operating fluid; characterized in that said pneumatic supply and control means comprise at least one valve assembly (1) as claimed in any one of the foregoing Claims. <seperator>EP-1577736-A2<id_sep>subgroupH04L9slash08subgroup classH04class sectionHsection sectionGsection subgroupH04L9slash32subgroup subclassG06Fsubclass classG06class groupG06F21slash00group subgroupH04L29slash06subgroup subclassH04Lsubclass subgroupG06F21slash20subgroup Efficient and secure authentication of computing systems The principles of the present invention relate to systems, methods, and computer program products for more efficiently and securely authenticating computing systems. In some embodiments, a limited use credential is used to provision more permanent credentials. A client receives a limited-use (e.g., a single-use) credential and submits the limited-use credential over a secure link to a server. The server provisions an additional credential (for subsequent authentication) and sends the additional credential to the client over the secure link. In other embodiments, computing systems automatically negotiate authentication methods using an extensible protocol. A mutually deployed authentication method is selected and secure authentication is facilitated with a tunnel key that is used encrypt (and subsequently decrypt) authentication content transferred between a client and a server. The tunnel key is derived from a shared secret (e.g.., a session key) and nonces.   1.  The present invention relates to extensible authentication and credential provisioning. More specifically, the present invention relates to automated negotiation of authentication mechanisms and limited-use credentials that can be used to provision additional credentials. 2.  Computer systems and related technology affect many aspects of society. Indeed, the computer system's ability to process information has transformed the way we live and work. Computer systems now commonly perform a host of tasks (e.g., word processing, scheduling, and database management) that prior to the advent of the computer system were performed manually. More recently, computer systems have been coupled to one another to form computer networks over which the computer systems can communicate electronically to share data. As a result, many of the tasks performed at a computer system (e.g., accessing electronic mail and web browsing) include electronic communication with one or more other computer systems via a computer network (e.g., the Internet) In order for one computer system to communicate electronically with another computer system, the computer system, as well as a corresponding computer system user, may need to authenticate with (i.e., prove its identity to) the other computer system (or a computer system that authorizes access to the other computer system. Depending on the environment, any of a wide variety of different computerized authentication mechanisms, such as, for example, Kerberos, Secure Sockets Layer ("SSL"), NT LAN Manager ("NTLM"), and/or Digest authentication, can be used. Some authentication mechanisms include an interactive logon. For example, before a computer system can communicate electronically on the Internet, a user of the computer system is often required to log-in with an Internet Service Provider (hereinafter referred to as an "ISP") that can authorize access to the Internet. Logging-in with an ISP typically includes a submission of user credentials (e.g., a username and a password) from the computer system to the ISP. Upon receiving the credentials, the ISP compares the credentials to a credentials database and if the credentials are appropriate the computer system is authorized to communicate with the Internet. Unfortunately, there is always some risk of unauthorized users obtaining an authorized user's credentials and using the credentials to impersonate the authorized user. Since an authorized user's credentials essentially allow full access to all of authorized users resources on a particular system (e.g., files, electronic messages, personal and financial data, etc.), any comprise in credentials can provide an unauthorized user with the ability to copy and destroy the authorized user's resources. In particular, passwords are vulnerable to guessing attacks, for example, from programs that sequentially submit each word in a dictionary as a password (commonly referred to as "dictionary attacks"). Other authentication mechanisms do not include an interactive logon and thus there are no user credentials that can be obtained. For example, a Web server can prove its identity to a Web client using SSL. When the Web client contacts a secured Web page at the Web server (e.g., a page beginning with "https:"), the Web server responds, automatically sending a digital certificate that authenticates the Web server. The Web client generates a unique session key to encrypt all communication with the Web server. The Web client encrypts the session with the Web server's public key (e.g., referenced in the certificate) so only the Web server can read the session key. Thus, a secure session is established without requiring any user actions. In a client computing system, a method for receiving credentials that can be used to can authentic with a server computing system, the method comprising:  The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the limited-use credential is a single-use password. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein establishing a secure link between the client computing system and the server computing system comprises generating a session key based on Diffie-Hellman public keys of the client computing system and the server computing system. The method as recite in claim 1, wherein the an act of receiving an additional credential that can be used for subsequent authentication with the server computing system comprises an act of receiving a certificate that can be used to access a wireless network. In a server computing system, a method for providing credentials to a client computing system, the method comprising:  The method as recited in claim 5, wherein establishing a secure link between the server computing system and the client computing system comprises generating a session key based on Diffie-Hellman public keys of the server computing system and the client computing system. The method as recited in claim 5, wherein the limited-use credential is a single-use password. The method as recited in claim 5, wherein the act of provisioning an additional credential for the client computing system based on the received limited-user credential comprises provisioning a certificate that can be used to access a wireless network. In a client computing system, a method for participating in authentication with a server computing system, the method comprising:  The method as recited in claim 9, wherein the first server request includes the authentication mechanisms deployed at the server computing system, a previous packet ID and a Nonce. The method as recited in claim 9, wherein the authentication mechanisms deployed at the server computing system include one more authentication mechanisms selected from among MS-CHAP v2, Authentication with MD5, Authentication with Generic Token Card, Authentication with Kerberos, Authentication with X.509, and Authentication with WS-Secufity. The method as recited in claim 9, wherein the authentication mechanisms deployed at the client computing system include one more authentication mechanisms selected from among MS-CHAP v2, Authentication with MD5, Authentication with Generic Token Card, Authentication with Kerberos, Authentication with X.509, and Authentication with WS-Security. The method as recited in claim 9, wherein the first response includes the authentication mechanisms deployed at the client computing system, a previous packet ID, a nonce, one or more security associations, and one or more public keys. The method as recited in claim 9, wherein the act of identifying a tunnel key comprises deriving a tunnel key based on a shared secret, a client side nonce, and a server side nonce. The method as recited in claim 9, wherein the act of receiving a second server request comprises receiving encrypted authentication content corresponding to an authentication method selected from among: negotiating an authentication method, re-authenticating, boot-strapping a client with an existing user-name and password, boot-strapping a client with an X.509 certificate, authenticating with an X.509 certificate, and boot-strapping a new client with a Kerberos token. The method as recited in claim 9, wherein the second server request includes encrypted authentication content, a previous packet ID, a security association, and a public key. The method as recited in claim 9, wherein the act of sending a second response includes sending encrypted responsive data for an authentication method selected from among: negotiating an authentication method, re-authenticating, boot-strapping a client with an existing user-name and password, boot strapping a client with an X.509 certificate, authenticating with an X.509 certificate, and boot-strapping a new client with a Kerberos token. The method as recite in claim 9, wherein the second response includes encrypted responsive data and a previous packet ID. In a server computing system, a method for participating in authentication with a client computing system, the method comprising:  The method as recited in claim 19, wherein the first request includes the authentication mechanisms deployed at the server computing system, a previous packet ID and a Nonce. The method as recited in claim 19, wherein the authentication mechanisms deployed at the server computing system include one more authentication mechanisms selected from among MS-CHAP v2, Authentication with MD5, Authentication with Generic Token Card, Authentication with Kerberos, Authentication with X.509, and Authentication with WS-Security. The method as recited in claim 9, wherein the authentication mechanisms deployed at the client computing system include one more authentication mechanisms selected from among MS-CHAP v2, Authentication with MD5, Authentication with Generic Token Card, Authentication with Kerberos, Authentication with X.509, and Authentication with WS-Security. The method as recited in claim 19, wherein the first client response includes the authentication mechanisms deployed at the client computing system, a previous packet ID, a nonce, one or more security associations, and one or more public keys. The method as recited in claim 19, wherein the act of identifying a tunnel key comprises deriving a tunnel key based on a shared secret, a client side nonce, and a server side nonce. The method as recited in claim 19, wherein the act of sending a second request comprises sending encrypted authentication content corresponding to an authentication method selected from among: negotiating an authentication method, re-authenticating, boot-strapping a client with an existing user-name and password, boot-strapping a client with an X.509 certificate, authenticating with an X.509 certificate, and boot-strapping a new client with a Kerberos token. The method as recited in claim 19, wherein the second request includes encrypted authentication content, a previous packet ID, a security association, and a public key. The method as recited in claim 19, wherein the act of receiving a second client response includes receiving encrypted responsive data for an authentication method selected from among: negotiating an authentication method, re-authenticating, boot-strapping a client with an existing user-name and password, boot strapping a client with an X.509 certificate, authenticating with an X.509 certificate, and boot-strapping a new client with a Kerberos token. The method as recite in claim 19, wherein the second client response includes encrypted responsive data and a previous packet ID. <seperator>EP-1450588-A1<id_sep>sectionHsection subgroupH01L51slash52subgroup classH01class subgroupH01L51slash50subgroup subclassH01Lsubclass groupH01L51slash00group EL DEVICE The present invention relates to an EL device which is driven with a lower voltage or power amount, which is superior in interface stability between layers in the device and which has a higher luminance as compared with the use of a conventional electrode, and is characterized in that in the EL device comprising a light emitting layer disposed as an essential layer between two electrodes facing each other, at least one of the electrodes includes a crystalline conductive film whose diffraction intensity ratio of (400)/(222) is 1.0 or more in X-ray diffraction by a /2 method.  The present invention relates to an electrode for use in an EL device, further particularly to an improvement of a hole injection electrode which supplies a hole (positive hole) to a light emitting layer using an organic compound. In recent years, considerable research has been done on an organic EL device. It has been noted that this is a device having a basic constitution in which hole transport materials such as triphenyl diamine (TPD) are formed into a thin film on a hole injection electrode by vapor deposition, fluorescent materials such as alumiquinolinol complex (Alq3) are further stacked as a light emitting layer, and metal electrodes (electron injection electrode) having a small work function, such as Mg, are formed, and a remarkably high luminance of several 100 to several 10,000 cd/m It is considered that materials for use as the hole injection electrode of the organic EL device, which inject many holes into the light emitting layer, hole injection/transport layer or the like, are effective. In many cases, a constitution for usually taking an emitted light from a substrate side is used, and a transparent conductive material is required. As this transparent electrode, indium tin-doped oxide (ITO), indium zinc-doped oxide (IZO), ZnO, SnO Additionally, the organic EL device tends to be degraded with an elapse of time, and prevention of degradation of the device is an important problem. Various causes are considered as factors which degrade the device, but the degradation of a film interface between an electrode and an organic layer largely influences device life or emission characteristics, and it is an important problem to modify physical properties in the film interface. Moreover, a generation/enlargement phenomenon or the like of a non-emission region, referred to as an abnormal emission phenomenon or dark spot by a leak current, also needs to be prevented. As an improvement of the electrode, in Japanese Patent Application Laid-Open No. 11-87068, it has been described that an ITO electrode having a (111) orientation and preferably having a diffraction intensity ratio of (400)/(222) of 0.6 or less in X-ray diffraction by a /2 process is used as the ITO electrode which is a hole injection electrode. Furthermore, it is described that an electrode having an average surface roughness of ITO electrodes of Ra ≤ 10 nm and a maximum surface roughness of Rmax ≤ 50 nm is preferably used. Moreover, in Japanese Patent Application Laid-Open No. 6-76950, an organic EL device is described in which a light emitting layer formed of an organic compound is disposed as an essential layer between two electrodes facing each other, an electron injection/transport layer formed of an organic compound is disposed if desired, and at least one of two electrodes is a transparent or translucent electrode. In the organic EL device, a size of a micro crystal grain on the surface of the transparent or translucent electrode, contacting the light emitting layer or the electron injection/transport layer, is 500 angstroms or less. By the use of this electrode, luminance unevenness and emission stability can be improved. An EL device comprising: a light emitting layer disposed as an essential layer between two electrodes facing each other, wherein at least one of the electrodes includes a crystalline conductive film whose diffraction intensity ratio of (400)/(222) is 1.0 or more in X-ray diffraction by a /2 process. The EL device according to claim 1, wherein the crystalline conductive film is an aggregate of columnar single crystals. The EL device according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the crystalline conductive film is a crystal aggregate in which a size of a crystallite in a longitudinal direction is in a range of 20 to 100 nm. The EL device according to one of claims 1 to 3, wherein a maximum surface roughness of the crystalline conductive film is in a range of 5 to 30 nm. The EL device according to one of claims 1 to 4, wherein an average surface roughness of a crystalline conductive film surface is in a range of 1 to 10 nm. The EL device according to one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the number of 5 to 30 nm protrusions existing in a 1 µm square region in the crystalline conductive film surface is 100 or more. An EL device comprising: a light emitting layer disposed as an essential layer between two electrodes facing each other, wherein the number of 5 to 30 nm protrusions existing in a 1 µm square region in the surface of at least one of the electrodes is 100 or more. The EL device according to claim 7, wherein a maximum surface roughness of at least one of the electrodes is in a range of 5 to 30 nm. The EL device according to claim 7 or 8, wherein an average surface roughness of at least one of the electrodes is in a range of 1 to 10 nm. The EL device according to one of claims 7 to 9, wherein at least one of the electrodes is an aggregate of crystals having a (100) surface orientation. The EL device according to one of claims 7 to 10, wherein at least one of the electrodes comprises a crystal aggregate in which a size of a crystallite in a longitudinal direction is in a range of 20 to 100 nm. The EL device according to one of claims 7 to 11, wherein at least one of the electrodes is an aggregate of columnar single crystals. An EL device comprising: a light emitting layer disposed as an essential layer between two electrodes facing each other, wherein at least one of the electrodes comprises a thin film of indium tin oxide, and tin atoms are uniformly distributed toward a film surface from a substrate in the thin film. The EL device according to claim 13, wherein the indium tin oxide film is a crystal aggregate having a (100) surface orientation. The EL device according to claim 13 or 14, wherein the thin film of indium tin oxide is an aggregate of columnar single crystals. The EL device according to one of claims 13 to 15, wherein the thin film of indium tin oxide is a crystal aggregate in which a size of a crystallite in a longitudinal direction is in a range of 20 to 100 nm. The EL device according to one of claims 13 to 16, wherein a maximum surface roughness of the thin film of indium tin oxide is in a range of 5 to 30 nm. The EL device according to one of claims 13 to 17, wherein an average surface roughness of the thin film of indium tin oxide is in a range of 1 to 10 nm. The EL device according to one of claims 12 to 18, wherein the number of 5 to 30 nm protrusions existing in a 1 µm square region in the surface of the thin film of indium tin oxide is 100 or more. An EL device comprising: a light emitting layer disposed as an essential layer between two electrodes facing each other, wherein at least one of the electrodes is a conductive film manufactured on a substrate by a spray thermal decomposition process or a pyro-sol process. The EL device according to claim 20, wherein the conductive film is formed at a temperature on the substrate in a range of 400 to 750°C. The EL device according to claim 20 or 21, wherein the conductive film is a crystal aggregate having a (100) surface orientation. The EL device according to claims 20 to 22, wherein the conductive film is an aggregate of columnar single crystals. The EL device according to claims 20 to 23, wherein the conductive film is a crystal aggregate in which a size of a crystallite in a longitudinal direction is in a range of 20 to 100 nm. The EL device according to one of claims 20 to 22, wherein a maximum surface roughness of the conductive film is in a range of 5 to 30 nm. The EL device according to one of claims 20 to 25, wherein an average surface roughness of the conductive film is in a range of 1 to 10 nm. The EL device according to one of claims 20 to 26, wherein the number of 5 to 30 nm protrusions existing in a 1 µm square region in a conductive film surface is 100 or more. The EL device according to one of claims 1 to 27, wherein at least one of the electrodes is a hole injection electrode. The EL device according to one of claims 1 to 28, wherein an organic compound is used in the light emitting layer. <seperator>EP-1577104-A1<id_sep>classB41class sectionBsection subclassB41Jsubclass subgroupB41J17slash32subgroup Ink ribbon cartridge An ink ribbon cartridge (30) including a frame (31), supply shaft supporting members and take-up shaft supporting members is provided. The supply shaft supporting members support a supply shaft (32), and the take-up shaft supporting members support a take-up shaft (33). The frame includes a first bearing member (34a), a second bearing member (34b), a front connecting member (35a), which connects front ends of the first and second bearing members together, and a back connecting member (35b) connects back ends of the first and second bearing members together. At least one of the front connecting member and the back connecting member has one of a groove or a hole (82) capable of accommodating a portion (83) of an image forming device in which the ink ribbon cartridge may be installed.  INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE This application claims priority from Japanese Patent Application No. 2004-072395 filed on March 15, 2004; and Japanese Patent Application Nos. 2004-188430, 2004-188509, 2004-188471, and 2004-188498, all filed on June 25, 2004, the entire subject matter of the applications is incorporated herein by reference thereto. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Field of Invention The invention relates an ink ribbon cartridge and, more particularly, to an attachable/detachable ink ribbon cartridge. Description of Related Art Image forming devices, such as, printers and facsimile machines, which print images/data via a thermal transfer method generally employ an ink ribbon to form an image on an image recording medium. The ink ribbon is typically held by an ink ribbon cartridge that is detachably arranged in the image forming device. An ink ribbon cartridge generally includes a supply shaft, a take-up shaft and a cartridge frame. The supply shaft maintains thereon the unused portion of an ink ribbon sheet and generally, an unused portion of the ink ribbon sheet is maintained in the form of a roll thereon. The take-up shaft maintains thereon the used portion of the ink ribbon sheet and generally, the used portion of the ink ribbon sheet is maintained in the form of a roll thereon. To print an image on an image recording medium, the ink ribbon sheet, supplied by (e.g., rolled out from) the supply shaft, is overlapped with the recording medium (e.g., paper) and heated by a thermal head. The heat causes the color elements on the ink ribbon to be transferred to the image recording medium. The used portion of the ink ribbon is then taken up by (e.g., rolled onto) the take-up shaft. One way to improve the quality of the image produced using such a thermal transfer method, is to subject the ink ribbon sheet to a sufficient amount of tension such that the portion of the ink ribbon sheet extending from the supply shaft to the take-up shaft is not loose and/or wrinkled to enable corresponding unwrinkled/stretched portions of the ink ribbon and the recording medium to consistently overlap each other. If the ink ribbon sheet is loose and/or wrinkled, for example, the color elements from the ink ribbon sheet may not be properly transferred to the image recording medium because some of the ink components may not be transferred to the recording medium at all and/or some of the ink components may be transferred to improper areas of the recording medium. In such a case, portions of the image may, for example, be smudged, missing, shifted, lighter, darker, etc. and thus, the quality of the formed image is sacrificed. One way to reduce, and preferably completely prevent, the loosening and/or wrinkling of the ink ribbon sheet is to apply a tension to the supply shaft in order to prevent over-rotation of the supply shaft in a direction which releases some of the ink ribbon sheet. To reduce the occurrence of a loose or wrinkled ink ribbon sheet, JP 2001-130075 discloses a back tension mechanism which supplies a predetermined rotation resistance to the supply shaft of an ink ribbon cartridge. The back tension mechanism disclosed therein utilizes a resin spool, which is rotatably mounted on an end of the supply shaft, and a spring, which presses the resin spool against the resin cartridge frame. When a surface of the resin cartridge rubs against a surface of the resin supply spool, a frictional force is generated therebetween. Accordingly, a back tension (i.e., rotation resistance) is applied against the rotation of the resin spool with the unused ink ribbon thereon (i.e., against the release of the ink ribbon on the resin supply spool). The applied back tension helps keep the ink ribbon from rotating excessively (i.e., supplying more ink ribbon than needed) and thereby loosening and/or wrinkling thereof. An ink ribbon cartridge, comprising:  The ink ribbon cartridge of claim 1, wherein the front connecting member is substantially above the supply shaft. The ink ribbon cartridge of claim 1 or 2, wherein the back connecting member is substantially above the take-up shaft. The ink ribbon cartridge of claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein the at least one groove or hole is arranged substantially along a center portion, along a length of the back connecting member. The ink ribbon cartridge of any preceding claim, wherein the first bearing member and the second bearing member are arranged substantially parallel to each other. The ink ribbon cartridge of claim 5, wherein the front connecting member connects an upper edge of a first end of the first bearing member to an upper edge of a first end of the second bearing member. The ink ribbon cartridge of claim 6, wherein the back connecting member connects an upper edge of a second end of the first bearing member to an upper edge of a second end of the second bearing member. The ink ribbon cartridge of any preceding claim, wherein the first bearing member and the second bearing member are shaped such that a distance between substantially center facing portions thereof is greater than a distance between substantially end facing portions thereof. The ink ribbon cartridge of any preceding claim, wherein at least one of the first bearing member and the second bearing member includes a substantially u-like portion along a center portion thereof, wherein the substantially u-like portion extends outward beyond at least one end portion of the at least one of the first bearing member and the second bearing member. The ink ribbon cartridge of any preceding claim, wherein both the first bearing member and the second bearing member include a substantially u-like portion along a center portion thereof, wherein the substantially u-like portion extends outward beyond at least one end portion of the first and second bearing member. The ink ribbon cartridge of claim 10, wherein the front connecting portion includes at least one grip portion which extends substantially upward from an upper surface of the front connecting member. An ink ribbon cartridge, comprising:  The ink ribbon cartridge of claim 12, wherein the front connecting member is substantially above the supply shaft. The ink ribbon cartridge of claim 12 or 13, wherein the back connecting member is substantially above the take-up shaft. The ink ribbon cartridge of claim 12, 13 or 14, wherein at least one groove or hole is arranged substantially along a center portion, along a length of the back connecting member for receiving a portion of an image forming device in which the ink ribbon cartridge is arranged. The ink ribbon cartridge of any one of claims 12 to 15, wherein the at least one grip portion has an inverted L-like shape such that depending on a width of the grip portion at least one finger may wrap around a back side of the at least one grip portion during handling of the ink ribbon cartridge. The ink ribbon cartridge of claim 16, wherein the ink ribbon cartridge includes a first grip portion at substantially a left end of the front connecting member and a second grip portion at substantially a right end of the front connecting member. The ink ribbon cartridge of claim 16 or 17, wherein a substantially center portion of the front connecting member has a height relative to an axis of rotation of the take-up shaft which is less than a height of an upper surface of the at least one grip portion. The ink ribbon cartridge of claim 16, 17 or 18, wherein the at least one grip portion is substantially centered above an axis of rotation the take-up shaft. The ink ribbon cartridge of claim 16, 17, 18 or 19, wherein the at least one grip portion has a plurality of ribs on an outer surface thereof. An ink ribbon cartridge, comprising:  The ink ribbon cartridge of claim 20, wherein each portion of the left and right bearing members corresponding to a portion thereof where a corresponding end of the supply shaft and take-up shaft is rotatably connected has a height which is greater than a height of the substantially center portions thereof. <seperator>EP-1434354-A2<id_sep>groupH03M1slash00group classH03class sectionHsection subgroupH03M1slash44subgroup subgroupH03M1slash16subgroup subgroupH03M1slash12subgroup subgroupH03M1slash38subgroup subgroupH03M1slash14subgroup subclassH03Msubclass Variable resolution A/D converter A variable resolution analog-to-digital converter comprises a sample-and-hold circuit (11) including a plurality of sample-and-hold units which are connected in parallel and selectively activated corresponding to a required resolution to sample and hold an analog input signal, a plurality of conversion stages (12A, 12B, 13A, 13N) connected in cascade to an output of the sample-and-hold circuit to convert an output signal of the sample-and-hold circuit to a plurality of bit signals, and a synthesis circuit (15) to synthesize the bit signals, to generate a digital output signal.  The present invention relates to an A/D converter (an analog-to-digital converter), and more particularly to an A/D converter with variable resolution suitable for a communication use. There are A/D converters of various types such as a high resolution ADC (analog-to-digital converter) used for digital processing of a speech signal and a high-speed ADC reading a signal on a hard disk. The most of them carries out an A/D conversion with a constant sample rate and a constant resolution. In late years, an ADC of a high speed and a high resolution is demanded in a communication use due to the spread of Internet. The reduction of power consumption of ADC is pursued for a battery-powered device with the ADC. In radio communications is used a scheme to change a modulation mode as well as a transmission power according to situation. According to, for example, IEEE802.11a which is one of a wireless LAN standard, it is prescribed to use, in environment in which a noise and an interference signal are low, a modulation mode that a frequency utilization efficiency is high and a high speed transmission is possible, and to use, in environment in which much noise and interferences occur, a modulation mode which is hard to come under the influence of noise and interference although it reduces the transmission speed. In a fixed modulation mode, a resolution needed by a ADC changes according to the situation of a signal and a noise. However, a change of the required resolution becomes more remarkable when the modulation mode is changed as described above. The variable resolution ADC is disclosed in a document 1: P. Setty et al.,"A 5.75 b 350 M sample/s or 6.75 b 150 M sample/s reconfigurable flash ADC for a PRML read channel", 1998 IEEE International Solid-State Circuits Conference, Digest of Technical Papers, pp. 148-149, and a document 2: E. K. F. Lee.et al.,"Reconfigurable data converter as a building block for mixed-signal test", European Design and Test Conference, 1997. Proceedings, pp.359-363. In general, it is difficult to realize a high speed and high resolution ADC. The document 1 discloses a technique for lowering a resolution in a fast operation and lowering a conversion rate at the time of a high resolution operation. The document 2 discloses the following technique. For the purpose of a test of an analog-to-digital mixed palletizing integrated circuit, a plurality of conversion stages each comprising a one-bit ADC, a D/A converter and an error amplifier are connected in cascade. The connection of the conversion stages are changed by a switch and the like to use as a DAC, a noise source or an ADC. It is necessary for reducing a power consumption to decide distribution of a current consumption according to a permission noise level as be shown in a document 3: T. B. Cho et al.,."A 10 b, 20 M sample/s, 35 mW Pipeline A/D Converter"(IEEE Journal of Solid-State Circuits Vol. 30, No. 3, March 1995, pp. 166-172. A method mentioned in the document 1 is effective in a flash type ADC suitable for a rapid access of a hard disk, but is not enough in resolution for a use of high speed radio communications. Actually, there is often used a pipeline type ADC that is excellent in rapidity more than the flash type ADC in a use of radio communications. A variable resolution analog-to-digital converter characterized by comprising:  The variable resolution analog-to-digital converter according to claim 1, characterized in that the conversion stages comprise:  The variable resolution analog-to-digital converter according to claim 2, characterized in that the non-variable conversion stages (13A ... 13N) each comprise a second sub-analog-to-digital converter unit to convert a third analog signal into a second digital signal and a second sub-digital-to-analog converter unit to convert the second digital signal into a fourth analog signal and output a second difference signal between the third analog signal and the fourth analog signal, the third analog signal being an analog signal corresponding to the analog input signal. The variable resolution analog-to-digital converter according to any one of claims 1 to 3, characterized in that the variable conversion stages each include switch means (S13 to S17) for connecting all of the sample-and-hold units in parallel when the required resolution is a first resolution and to connect one of the sample-and-hold units when it is a second resolution lower than the first resolution. The variable resolution analog-to-digital converter according to any one of claims 1 to 4, characterized in that the variable conversion stages each include means for activating all of the sub-digital-to-analog converter units (34A to 34C) in parallel when the required resolution is a first resolution and for activating one of the sub-digital-to-analog converter units when it is a second resolution lower than the first resolution. The variable resolution analog-to-digital converter according to any one of claims 1 to 5, characterized by further including a third sub-analog-to-digital converter unit (14) connected to a last one of the non-variable conversion stages to convert the a second difference signal output from the last one of the non-variable conversion stages into a digital signal. The variable resolution analog-to-digital converter according to any one of claims 1 to 6, characterized in that the variable conversion stages (12A, 12B) are used for most significant bits and the non-variable conversion stages are used for least significant bits. The variable resolution analog-to-digital converter according to any one of claims 1 to 7, characterized in that an initial one of the variable conversion stages (12A, 12B) is supplied with an output signal of the sample-and-hold circuit (11) as the first analog signal, and each of the remaining ones of the variable conversion stages is supplied with the first difference signal of a preceding one of the variable conversion stages as the first analog signal. The variable resolution analog-to-digital converter according to any one of claims 1 to 8, characterized in that an initial one of the non-variable conversion stages (13A...13N) is supplied with the first difference signal of a last one of the variable conversion stages as the third analog signal, and each of the remaining ones of the non-variable conversion stages is supplied with the second difference signal of a preceding one of the non-variable conversion stages as the third analog signal. The variable resolution analog-to-digital converter according to any one of claims 1 to 9, characterized in that the second sub-digital-to-analog converter unit (34) includes a digital-to-analog converter unit (35) to convert the second digital signal into the fourth analog signal, a subtracter (36) to subtract the fourth analog signal from the third analog signal to output the second difference signal, and a residual amplifier (37) to amplify the second difference signal. A variable resolution analog-to-digital converter characterized by comprising: The variable resolution analog-to-digital converter according to claim 11, characterized by further including clock phase inverting means (19) for inverting, when the switch turns on, a phase of a clock signal supplied to the conversion stages except for at least the initial one of the conversion stages with respect to a phase of the clock signal when the switch turns off. A variable resolution analog-to-digital converter characterized by comprising:  The variable resolution analog-to-digital converter according to claim 13, characterized in that each of the unit delay circuits (53A to 53C) include a plurality of sub-delay circuits connected in parallel selectively according ton a required resolution to delay an output signal from the sample-and-hold circuit. The variable resolution analog-to-digital converter according to claim 13, characterized in that the analog linear transformation means (54) comprises a variable analog linear transformation circuit whose linear transformation matrix is variable and the sub-analog-to-digital converter units (55A to 55D) are selectively used according to at least one signal from the variable analog linear transformation circuit, the number of used sub-analog-to-digital converter units being determined by the required resolution. The variable resolution analog-to-digital converter according to claim 15, characterized in that the digital linear transformation means (56) comprises a variable digital linear transformation circuit whose linear transformation matrix is variable. A radio receiver comprising: a high frequency filter to filter a receive signal; a low noise amplifier circuit to amplify the filtered receive signal; a frequency converter to convert the filtered receive signal into an intermediate frequency signal; an intermediate filter to filter the intermediate frequency signal; a variable gain amplifier to amplify the filtered intermediate frequency signal; and a frequency converter to convert the amplified intermediate frequency signal into a low frequency signal, characterized by including the variable resolution analog-to-digital circuit according to any one of claims 1 to 16 to subject the low frequency signal to a variable resolution analog-to-digital conversion. <seperator>EP-1226990-A1<id_sep>sectionBsection subclassB60Hsubclass classF25class sectionFsection groupB60H1slash00group groupF25B40slash00group subclassF25Bsubclass classB60class Air conditioner for vehicle A sub-condenser 4 is disposed in a within-vehicle-compartment air passage P1, so that the sub-condenser is permitted to receive heat from a heater core 21.  BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to an air conditioner for a vehicle for air-conditioning a temperature environment within a vehicle compartment. A conventional air conditioner for a vehicle is used to air-condition a temperature environment within a vehicle compartment. The conventional air conditioner generally comprises a refrigeration cycle for circulating a refrigerant to thereby exchange heat between refrigerant and air, and a hot water line for exchanging heat using engine cooling water heated by heat that is exhausted from an engine. In the conventional air conditioner for a vehicle, in an air passage within a vehicle compartment (which is hereinafter referred to as a within-vehicle-compartment air passage) into which the inside air and outside air canbe selectively introduced, there are disposed an evaporator serving as a heat absorbing within-vehicle-compartment heat exchanger to be incorporated into the refrigeration cycle, and a heater core which serves as a heat generator and is incorporated into the hot water line. And, in case where the heat of the air flowing through the within-vehicle-compartment air passage is absorbed into the refrigerant existing within the evaporator, there is produced the cool air; and, in case where the air flowing through the within-vehicle-compartment air passage is heated by the heater core, there is produced the warm air. Also, in case where the rate between the cool air and warm air is adjusted by an air mix door, the temperature within the vehicle compartment can be adjusted. By the way, in the above-structured conventional air conditioner for a vehicle, since the warm air is produced by the heater core which uses the engine cooling water as a heat medium, in a state where the temperature of the engine cooling water is not yet sufficiently high, for example, just after the engine is started, or when the running load is small, the temperature within the vehicle compartment cannot be raised up to a satisfactory level. In order to cope with the above problem and thus enhance the heating performance, there are proposed air conditioners for a vehicle which are respectively disclosed in JP-A-9-175140 and JP-A-10-44742. In these air conditioners for a vehicle, a sub-condenser serving as a heat radiating within-vehicle-compartment heat exchanger for radiating the heat of the refrigerant into the air existing within the vehicle compartment is incorporated into the refrigeration line. And, the sub-condenser, together with the evaporator and heater core, is disposed in the above-mentioned within-vehicle-compartment air passage. In the thus-structured air conditioners for a vehicle, since the warm air is produced not only by the heater core using the engine cooling water as a heat medium but also by the sub-condenser using the refrigerant as the heat medium, even in a state where the temperature of the engine cooling water is not yet sufficiently high, for example, just after the engine is started, or when the running load is small, the temperature within the vehicle compartment can be raised relatively rapidly. Recently, the atmosphere of the space within the vehicle compartment has been made more and more comfortable and, with the increasing comfort of the vehicle compartment, there has been raised the need to enhance the performance of the air conditioner for a vehicle, especially, there has been strongly raised the need to further enhance the quick heating performance of the air conditioner for raising the temperature within the vehicle compartment quickly. An air conditioner for a vehicle, comprising:  The air conditioner as set forth in claim 1, further comprising:  The air conditioner as set forth in claim 1, further comprising:  The air conditioner as set forth in claim 3, further comprising a fourth heat exchanger disposed in the third refrigerant line, the fourth heat exchanger for exchanging heat between the refrigerant expanded by the second expander and the refrigerant flowing through the front stage of the second expander. The air conditioner as set forth in claim 3, further comprising a fifth heat exchanger disposed in the third refrigerant line, the fifth heat exchanger for exchanging heat between the refrigerant expanded by the second expander and the refrigerant flowing through the front stage of the second heat exchanger. The air conditioner as set forth in claim 1, wherein the heat generator is disposed upstream of the second heat exchanger in the air passage. The air conditioner as set forth in claim 1, wherein the second heat exchanger and the heat generator are integrally formed. An air conditioner for a vehicle, comprising:  The air conditioner as set forth in claim 8, wherein the heat generator is disposed upstream of the heat exchanger in the air passage. The air conditioner as set forth in claim 8, wherein the heat exchanger and the heat generator are integrally formed. <seperator>EP-1897537-A1<id_sep>subclassA61Ksubclass classA61class subgroupA61K9slash20subgroup groupA61K9slash00group subgroupA61K9slash50subgroup subgroupA61K9slash28subgroup sectionAsection subgroupA61K9slash16subgroup Composition comprising an angiotensin II receptor antagonist The present invention concerns pharmaceutical compositions comprising an acidic drug compound which is an angiotensin II receptor antagonist or a releasable form thereof, and a pH modifier. The present invention relates to solid pharmaceutical compositions comprising a drug compound with a pH-dependent absorption profile. In particular, the invention relates to a pharmaceutical composition comprising an acidic drug compound, for example valsartan, which may be in the form of the free acid, a prodrug, a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, solvate, a polymorph, or a combination thereof. The acidic drug compound may be in a crystalline, partially crystalline, amorphous or liquid state. Valsartan, i.e. (S)-N-(1-carboxy-2-methylprop-1-yl)-N-pentanoyl-N-[2'-(1H-tetrazol-5-yl)biphenyl-4-ylmethyl]amine, is a weakly acidic drug compound. The structure, preparation and formulation of valsartan is described for instance in Valsartan is currently marketed as an immediate release tablet formulation (Diovan ®) containing valsartan 40 mg, 80 mg, 160 mg or 320 mg. Valsartan shows a low bioavailability (around 30 %) and relatively high inter- and intra-subject variability when administered in this form. Peak plasma concentration is reached around 2 to 4 hours after dosing, while the maximum hypertensive effect is usually achieved within 6 hours. A consequence of this is that the antihypertensive effect of a valsartan tablet taken in the evening may be substantially diminished by the morning; this is not ideal since blood pressure and heart rate are known to peak in the early morning hours. There is, therefore, considerable interest in providing a valsartan formulation which provides sustained release of the drug over longer periods of time, e.g. up to 24 hours from administration. There also exists a need for a valsartan formulation which results in one or more of reduced inter-subject variability, reduced intra-subject variability and increased bioavailability. Acidic drug compounds such as valsartan exhibit significant pH-dependent permeability along the gastrointestinal (Gl) tract. The net charge of acidic drug compounds increases with pH, which in turn leads to a decrease in lipophilicity. A consequence of this is that the permeability of acidic drug compounds across the lipophilic membranes of the GI tract decreases with pH. Since pH gradually increases along the Gl tract (approximate ranges of pH values are: stomach pH 1 to 2; duodenum pH 4 to 5; jejunum and ileum pH 5 to 8; and colon pH 6 to 8), the permeability of acidic drug compounds decreases as the compounds travel along the intestine. This drop in permeability limits the rate of absorption and bioavailability of the compounds in the less acidic regions of the GI tract. Another property of acidic drug compounds is that their solubility in water increases with pH. As a result, the compounds are more soluble in the less acidic regions of the GI tract, increasing the likelihood that they will be excreted rather than absorbed. The present invention is predicated at least in part on an appreciation that by shifting the microenvironmental pH of an acidic drug formulation to more acidic conditions, the net charge of drug molecules passing through the less acidic regions of the GI tract can be reduced. This enhances the lipophilicity and, in turn, the permeability of the drug molecules in these less acidic regions. Modulating the pH in this way also reduces the water solubility of the compounds in these regions, reducing the likelihood of the compounds being excreted. The invention is particularly relevant to formulations of weakly acidic drug compounds, especially valsartan and other angiotensin II receptor antagonists. A solid pharmaceutical composition comprising:  The pharmaceutical composition according to claim 1, which comprises at least one matrix polymer, e.g. a water-insoluble polymer. The pharmaceutical composition according to claim 2, wherein the matrix polymer contains at least one of the acidic drug compound and the pH modifier. The pharmaceutical composition according to claim 3, wherein the matrix polymer contains the acidic drug compound and the pH modifier. The pharmaceutical composition according to claim 3 or claim 4, wherein the matrix polymer contains a substantially uniform dispersion of the acidic drug compound and the pH modifier. The pharmaceutical composition according to any of claims 3 to 5, wherein the matrix polymer comprises hydroxymethylpropylcellulose (HPMC). The pharmaceutical composition according to any preceding claim, which comprises a core containing the acidic drug compound and pH modifier, and a coating thereon. The pharmaceutical composition according to claim 7, wherein the coating comprises a diffusion coating. The pharmaceutical composition according to claim 8, wherein the diffusion coating comprises a water-insoluble material. The pharmaceutical composition according to claim 9, wherein the diffusion coating comprises one or more of ethylcellulose, acrylic acid ester and methacrylic acid ester. The pharmaceutical composition according to any of claims 8 to 10, wherein the diffusion coating is porous. The pharmaceutical composition according to any of claims 8 to 11, wherein the diffusion coating comprises a pore-forming agent. The pharmaceutical composition according to claim 12, wherein the diffusion coating comprises a water-soluble polymer. The pharmaceutical composition according to claim 13, wherein the diffusion coating comprises one or both of hydroxypropylmethylcellulose and polyethyleneglycol. The pharmaceutical composition according to any preceding claim, which is adapted to provide a microenvironmental pH of 5 or less in at least a region of the gastrointestinal tract. The pharmaceutical composition according to claim 15, which is adapted to provide a microenvironmental pH of 4 or less in at least a region of the gastrointestinal tract. The pharmaceutical composition according to claim 15 or claim 16, which is adapted to provide a locally acidic environment in one or more of the duodenum, jejunum, ileum and colon. The pharmaceutical composition according to claim 17, which is adapted to provide said microenvironmental pH in the jejunum, ileum and colon. The pharmaceutical composition according to any preceding claim wherein the acidic drug compound is weakly acidic. The pharmaceutical composition according to any preceding claim wherein the acidic drug compound has a pKa of 2.5 or more at 25 °C. The pharmaceutical composition according to any preceding claim wherein the acidic drug compound has a pKa of 3 or more, for example 4 or more, at 25 °C. The pharmaceutical composition according to any preceding claim wherein the acidic drug compound comprises one or more acidic groups. The pharmaceutical composition according to claim 22 wherein the acidic drug compound comprises one or more carboxylic acid groups. The pharmaceutical composition according to claim 22 or claim 23 wherein the acidic drug compound comprises one or more tetrazole groups. The pharmaceutical composition according to any preceding claim, wherein the acidic drug compound is valsartan. The pharmaceutical composition according to any preceding claim, which further comprises one or more other antihypertensive agents. The pharmaceutical composition according to claim 26, which comprises one or more agents selected from diuretics, calcium channel blockers, beta-blockers and ACE inhibitors. The pharmaceutical composition according to claim 27, which comprises hydrochlorothiazide. The pharmaceutical composition according to any preceding claim wherein the pH modifier has a pKa of greater than 2. The pharmaceutical composition according to any preceding claim wherein the pH modifier is an organic acid. The pharmaceutical composition according to claim 30 wherein the pH modifier is selected from citric acid, fumaric acid, succinic acid, adipic acid and maleic acid. The pharmaceutical composition according to any preceding claim wherein the pH modifier is fumaric acid. The pharmaceutical composition according to claim 32 wherein the weight/weight ratio of pH modifier to acidic drug compound is between 0.025:1 and 2:1. The pharmaceutical composition according to claim 33 wherein the weight/weight ratio of pH modifier to acidic drug compound is about 0.25:1. The pharmaceutical composition according to any preceding claim wherein the acidic drug compound is valsartan and the pH modifier has a value for the most acidic pKa of less than 3.5 The pharmaceutical composition according to claim 35 wherein the pH modifier has a pKa of about 3. The pharmaceutical composition according to claim 36 wherein the pH modifier comprises fumaric acid. The pharmaceutical composition according to any preceding claim, which is in the form of a tablet, minitablet, granule or pellet. Use of an acidic angiotensin II receptor antagonist or a releasable form thereof and a pH modifier for the preparation of a medicament for the treatment, prevention or delay of progression of hypertension, congestive heart failure or myocardial infarction. Use according to claim 39 wherein the angiotensin II receptor antagonist is weakly acidic. Use according to claim 39 or claim 40 wherein the angiotensin II receptor antagonist is valsartan. Use according to any of claims 39 to 41 wherein the pH modifier is as defined in any of claims 29 to 37. A method of orally administering an acidic drug compound which is an angiotensin II receptor antagonist or a releasable form thereof, said method comprising orally administering to a patient in need thereof a pharmaceutical composition according to any one of claims 1 to 38. A method according to claim 43 wherein the acidic drug compound is valsartan. A method according to claim 44 wherein the composition is administered for the treatment, prevention or delay of progression of hypertension, congestive heart failure or myocardial infarction. An oral valsartan composition adapted to create a locally acidic environment in the intestine. A composition according to claim 46, which is adapted to create a locally acidic environment in one or more of the jejunum, ileum and colon. Use of a pharmaceutically acceptable acid for the manufacture of an oral medicament comprising an acidic drug compound which is an angiotensin II receptor antagonist or a releasable form thereof, wherein the pharmaceutically acceptable acid promotes protonation of the acidic drug compound in the intestine. A method of enhancing the intestinal absorption of an acidic drug compound which is an angiotensin II receptor antagonist, comprising co-administering the acidic drug compound or a releasable form thereof with a pH modifier. <seperator>EP-1306982-A1<id_sep>groupH04J13slash00group groupH04W52slash00group classH04class subclassH04Wsubclass sectionHsection subclassH04Bsubclass subclassH04Jsubclass subgroupH04W52slash32subgroup subgroupH04B7slash005subgroup subgroupH04W52slash40subgroup subgroupH04W52slash54subgroup subgroupH04B7slash26subgroup Apparatus and method for controlling power of a common reverse power control channel in a mobile communication system A method for controlling power of common power control channels from a plurality of base stations in order to control transmission power of a mobile station in a mobile communication system. The power control method comprises receiving, by the mobile station, pilot signals from the base stations and selecting a base station that transmitted a pilot signal having a highest power level; transmitting information indicating a channel condition between the selected base station and the mobile station, from the mobile station to the selected base station; and controlling power of a common power control channel transmitted from the selected base station to the mobile based on the channel condition information received from the selected base station.  PRIORITY This application claims priority to an application entitled "Apparatus and Method for Controlling Power of Forward Common Power Control Channel in a Mobile Communication System" filed in the Korean Industrial Property Office on October 29, 2001 and assigned Serial No. 2001-66898, the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 1. Field of the Invention The present invention relates generally to a mobile communication system supporting a multimedia service including voice and data services, and in particular, to an apparatus and method for controlling power of a forward common power control channel. 2. Description of the Related Art An IS-2000 CDMA (Code Division Multiple Access) mobile communication system, a typical mobile communication system, supports only a voice service. However, with the development of the communication technology and at the request of users, researche has been carried out on a mobile communication system for supporting a data service. For example, an HDR (High Data Rate) communication system has been proposed to support only a high-speed data service. The existing mobile communication systems are classified into one mobile communication system for supporting only the voice service and another mobile communication system for supporting only the data service. That is, although the mobile communication system is required to support both the voice service and the data service, the conventional mobile communication system is designed to support only the voice service or the data service. Therefore, there have been long demands for a mobile communication system capable of supporting both the voice service and the data service. To meet the demands, a 1xEV-DV (Evolution Data and Voice) mobile communication system has been proposed recently, FIG. 1 illustrates forward and reverse power control-related channels in a conventional 1xEV-DV mobile communication system. Referring to FIG. 1, sectors (or base stations) #1 and #2 each measure a reverse pilot channel (R-PICH) from a mobile (or Mobile Station (MS)) to estimate a signal-to-noise ratio Ep/Nt, and compare the signal-to-noise ratio with a reference value for outer loop power control (or outer loop set point). If the estimated signal-to-noise ratio is larger than or equal to the reference value, the base stations send power-down commands to the mobile over a forward common power control channel (F-CPCCH). Otherwise, if the estimated signal-to-noise ratio is lower than the reference value, the base stations send power-up commands to the mobile over the forward common power control channel. A soft handoff performed by the mobile is illustrated in FIG. 1. During a soft handoff, the mobile receives forward common power control channels CPCCH1 and CPCCH2 from two or more sectors #1 and #2. If at least one of the received CPCCHs includes a power-down command, the mobile decreases its transmission power. However, the mobile increases its transmission power, only when power-up commands are provided from all sectors. In FIG. 1, transmission power of the F-CPCCH is controlled through a channel quality indicator channel (CQICH) transmitted over a reverse link. The CQICH transmits a carrier-to-interference ratio (C/I) value of a common pilot channel, measured by the mobile for a specific sector, to the sector. In general, the CQICH is used by the mobile to measure forward common pilot channels transmitted from a plurality of sectors neighboring to the mobile, and transmit a C/I value (or a forward channel condition information) of a best sector having the highest C/I value among the measured common pilot channels to the corresponding sector. Upon receiving the CQICH, the sector determines power to be allocated to the CPCCH based on the C/I value of the forward common pilot channel measured by the mobile. A method for controlling power of common power control channels from a plurality of base stations in order to control transmission power of a mobile station in a mobile communication system including the mobile station and the base stations constituting an active set, comprising the steps of:  The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of:  A method for controlling power of common power control channels from a plurality of base stations in order to control transmission power of a mobile station in a mobile communication system including the mobile station and the base stations constituting an active set, comprising the steps of:  The method of claim 3, further comprising the step of controlling, by the non-selected base stations, power of common power control channels transmitted to the mobile station based on received power control bits. A power control apparatus in a mobile communication system, comprising;  A power control apparatus in a mobile communication system, comprising:  <seperator>EP-1547831-A2<id_sep>groupB60G15slash00group sectionBsection groupB60G13slash00group subclassB60Gsubclass subgroupB60G15slash06subgroup classB60class Upper strut mount for a vehicle suspension A mounting assembly for a vehicle suspension component comprising a support housing having an aperture. A rod is partially disposed within the aperture and displaceable relative to the support housing along a line of travel. A rigid core is fixedly mounted to the rod and moves with the rod. An insulator is disposed about the rigid core between the support housing and the rigid core. The insulator has a number of portions separable from each other and separately placed about the rigid core. The portions each have interlocking sections cooperating with each other to couple the portions together and encapsulate the rigid core such that the rigid core is isolated from the support housing. The subject invention relates to a mounting assembly for a vehicle wherein the mounting assembly has an insulator for isolating vibration and controlling the total movement. Mounting assemblies for vehicles are well known in the art. Mounting assemblies of the prior art come in a variety of forms and are used in numerous applications. For example, mounting assemblies are frequently used to isolate vibration and control movements of a vehicle frame relative to a vehicle body. These types of mounting assemblies, such as disclosed in U.S. Patent Nos. 4,286,777; 5,799,930; and 6,361,096, include a support housing mounted to the vehicle frame and a carrier mounted to a vehicle body. The carrier is coupled to the support housing through one or more insulators and a bolt. Mounting assemblies are also frequently used for wheel suspension systems. Examples of such mounting assemblies are shown in U.S. Patent Nos. 4,434,977; 4,478,396; 5,248,134; 5,330,166; 5,975,505; 6,076,794; and 6,260,835. Each of these mounting assemblies include a rigid support housing mounted to a chassis or frame of a vehicle. A piston rod extends from the wheel suspension system through the support housing. One or more insulators couple the piston rod to the support housing and allow for some relative movement of the piston rod relative to the support housing. The insulators isolate vibrations of the piston rod during an application of a force from the wheel suspension system, without causing excessive displacement. The prior art mounting assemblies for both the vehicle body and the wheel suspension system are typically formed of an elastomeric rubber or cellular polyurethane material. Further, the prior art insulators are usually molded to the respective portions of the mounting assembly. Molding the insulators within the mounting assemblies creates an additional time consuming process during the manufacture of these assemblies. As disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,478,396, the prior art has recognized the deficiencies with molding the insulators and has contemplated forming the insulators separately from the mounting assemblies. In particular, the insulators of the '396 patent are formed into two pieces and then disposed within the mounting assembly. Although the insulator design of the '396 patent is an improvement over the prior art, this design has likewise had a number of deficiencies. A mounting assembly for a vehicle comprising a support housing having an aperture and adapted to be mounted to the vehicle. A shaft is at least partially disposed within the aperture and displaceable relative to the support housing along a line of travel. A rigid core is fixedly mounted to the shaft and movable relative to the support housing during displacement of the shaft. An insulator is disposed about the rigid core between the support housing and the rigid core. The insulator has a plurality of portions separable from each other and separately placed about the rigid core with the portions each having interlocking sections cooperating with each other to couple the portions together and encapsulate the rigid core such that the rigid core is isolated from the support housing. In the preferred embodiment, the insulator includes a first portion having a first body and a first interlocking section extending from the first body for partially encapsulating the rigid core. The insulator also includes a second portion separable from the first portion and having a second body and a second interlocking section extending from the second body. The first interlocking section cooperates with the second interlocking section to couple the first portion to the second portion for fully encapsulating the rigid core such that the rigid core is completely isolated from the support housing. A mounting assembly for a vehicle comprising:  An assembly as set forth in claim 1 wherein said interlocking sections on said portions are identical, wherein said interlocking sections on said portions are further defined as legs with said legs cooperating with each other couple said portions together. An assembly as set forth in claim 1 wherein said plurality of portions of said insulator are further defined as a first portion having a first interlocking section and a second portion having a second interlocking section. An assembly as set forth in claim 3 wherein said first and second portions are substantially identical such that each of said first and second portions encapsulate substantially half of said rigid core. An assembly as set forth in claim 3 wherein said first and second portions include an inner surface complementary in configuration with said rigid core and an outer surface complementary in configuration with an inner surface of said support housing. An assembly as set forth in claim 3 wherein said first and second interlocking sections are further defined as first and second legs, respectively, with said first and second legs cooperating with each other to couple said first and second portions together, and wherein said first portion includes a first body with said first leg extending from said first body, and wherein said second portion includes a second body with said second leg extending from said second body, and wherein both of said first and second bodies and said first and second legs are substantially identical. An assembly as set forth in claim 6 wherein said first body is further defined as a first planar section having a hole disposed therein, and wherein said second body is further defined as a second planar section having a hole disposed therein, and wherein said first leg includes a pair of first legs equally spaced about said first planar section and wherein said second leg includes a pair of second legs equally spaced about said second planar section with said first legs cooperating with said second legs to couple said first and second portions together. An assembly as set forth in claim 1 wherein said first and second portions of said insulator are formed of a common homogeneous material, said common homogeneous material is further defined as micro-cellular polyurethane. An assembly as set forth in claim 1 wherein said shaft is further defined as a piston rod, and wherein said piston rod further includes an integral ledge with said core abutting said ledge to position said core on said piston rod. An assembly as set forth in claim 9 wherein said support housing defines a first cup for retaining said first and second portions of said insulator, said rigid core, and a portion of said piston rod, further including a top plate positioned over said insulator and at least a portion of said rigid core for at least partially enclosing said first cup of said support housing and wherein said top plate abuts said first portion of said insulator to wedge said first portion between said top plate and said rigid core and to wedge said second portion between said rigid core and said support housing. An assembly as set forth in claim 9 wherein said support housing further includes a second cup opposite said first cup with a jounce bumper disposed within said second cup about said piston rod. An insulator for a mounting assembly of a vehicle wherein the mounting assembly includes a support housing mounted to the vehicle, a shaft displaceable relative to the support housing along a line of travel, and a rigid core fixedly mounted to the shaft with said insulator disposed about the rigid core between the support housing and the rigid core, said insulator comprising;  An assembly as set forth in claim 12 wherein said first and second portions are substantially identical. An assembly as set forth in claim 13 wherein said first and second interlocking sections are further defined as first and second legs, respectively, with said first and second legs cooperating with each other to couple said first and second portions together and wherein both of said first and second bodies and said first and second legs are substantially identical. An assembly as set forth in claim 12 wherein said first body is further defined as a first planar section having a hole disposed therein, and wherein said second body is further defined as a second planar section having a hole disposed therein, and wherein said first leg includes a pair of first legs equally spaced about said first planar section and wherein said second leg includes a pair of second legs equally spaced about said second planar section with said first legs cooperating with said second legs to couple said first and second portions together. An assembly as set forth in claim 12 wherein said first and second portions are formed of a common homogeneous material said common homogeneous material is further defined as micro-cellular polyurethane. <seperator>EP-1351444-A2<id_sep>subgroupG06F9slash44subgroup classH04class sectionHsection subgroupH04L12slash24subgroup sectionGsection subclassG06Fsubclass classG06class subgroupG06F9slash46subgroup subclassH04Lsubclass Application level integration support of a distributed management and service provisioning solution An integrated data network management and data service provisioning environment is provided. The integrated environment includes legacy software application code and current software application code each augmented with code portions enabling exchange of information therebetween via an interworking layer. A facility for participation in and interacting with the integrated environment is also provided. A man-machine interface is integrated across different applications which themselves may be executed on different computers to provide a seamless exchange of information. The advantages are derived from enhanced usage efficiencies in providing data network management and service provisioning solutions. The interworking layer also provides for security enforcement across applications participating in the integrated environment.  The invention relates to data network management and data service provisioning environments, and in particular to methods of using network management and service provisioning applications in combination to provide network management and service provisioning solutions. In the field of data network management and service provisioning, software applications running on and hardware associated with computing platforms such as workstations, computers, terminals, etc. are used in combination to provide network management and service provisioning solutions. FIG. 1 is a schematic diagram showing data network elements participating in a data transport network and data network elements used in an associated data network management and data service provisioning environment. A data transport network 100 includes data network nodes such as, but not limited to, data switching nodes 102, and interconnecting data transport links 104. The data transport network 100 enables the conveyance of data between data network nodes associated with service providers 110 and data network nodes associated with service users 112. Both service provider 110 and the service user 112 data network nodes are said to be connected to the data transport network 100 via data transport uplinks 106 to enable the conveyance of data therebetween. Although only data switching nodes 102 are shown in FIG. 1, the invention is not limited thereto; data transport networks may also include a large variety of data network elements (not shown) such as: routers, bridges, Domain Name Service (DNS) servers, firewalls, multiplexers, demultiplexers, etc. A data connection 120 presented in FIG. 1 is shown to provision a data service during a corresponding data session between a service provider 110 and a service user 112. An uplink 108 connects a data network Management Local Area Network (MLAN) 130 to the data transport network 100. The MLAN 130 services a network management and service provisioning hub 132 comprising computing platforms such as legacy computer 140, legacy workstation 142, terminal 144, current computer 150, current workstation 152, advanced interface 154, etc. Computing platforms in existence include: legacy, current, state-of-the-art, etc. Factors considered in the above classification include: age, capabilities, length of operation, costs of operation, current stage of the development cycle, etc. When reference is made herein to a computer, the computer is understood to include at least one processor and optionally a human-machine interface. When reference is made to a terminal, the terminal is understood to include a computer having limited data processing capabilities but typically used for its human-machine interface capabilities. Ancillary MLAN connected data network nodes enabling network management and service provisioning include but are not limited to a database 134. The management hub 132 may make use of other MLAN connected data network nodes or devices (not shown) such as DNS servers, relational databases, firewalls, etc. As part of the network management and service provisioning it may be necessary to employ: monitoring equipment, statistics gathering equipment, statistics processing equipment, storage equipment, statistical information storage database, etc. These devices may be connected to the data transport network 100 directly. All of these devices although not shown, can either form an integral part of data network nodes or may exist as distinct data network nodes themselves. Network management and service provisioning environment system comprising:  Network management and service provisioning environment system as claimed in claim 1, wherein at least one of the software applications is augmented with the application code stub to enable said software application to participate in the integrated network management and service provisioning solution. Network management and service provisioning environment system as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, wherein network management and service provisioning is effected in a data transport network having data network entities, each data network entity having an associated objectID, each application code stub further being adapted to extract and exchange objectIDs in enabling the information exchange. Network management and service provisioning environment system as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the at least one computer comprises a one of: a legacy computer and a current computer. Network management and service provisioning environment system as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein at least one of the at least two software applications comprises legacy software application code. Network management and service provisioning environment system as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein at least one of the at least two software applications comprises current software application code. Network management and service provisioning environment system as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 6, further comprising a registry holding a list of software applications registered with the network management and service provisioning solution. Network management and service provisioning environment system as claimed in claim 7, wherein the registry comprises a persistence entity. Method of participating in a network management and service provisioning environment comprising steps of:  Method as claimed in claim 9, wherein the step of registering the software application with the registry, further comprises a step of: exchanging messages between the software application and the registry. Method as claimed in claim 9 or claim 10, wherein prior to the step of receiving the list of prior registered software applications, the method further comprises a step of: requesting the list of prior registered software applications from the registry. Method as claimed in any one of claims 9 to 11, wherein prior to the step of receiving the interworking specifications, the method further comprises a step of: requesting the interworking specifications from a one of the registry and the at least another one software application participating in the interworked network management and service provisioning environment. Method as claimed in any one of claims 9 to 12, wherein the step of providing access to functionality specified via the interworking specifications, further comprises a step of: making available the specified functionality via interactive iconical elements associated with the newly registered software application. Method of providing a network management and service provisioning environment comprising steps of:  Method as claimed in claim 14, wherein the step of registering the software application with the registry, further comprises a step of: exchanging messages between the software application and the registry. Method as claimed in claim 14 or claim 15, wherein prior to the step of supplying the list of prior registered software applications, the method further comprises a step of: receiving a request for the list of prior registered software applications from the newly registered software application. Method as claimed in any one of claims 14 to 16, wherein prior to the step of supplying the interworking specifications, the method further comprises a step of: receiving a request for the interworking specifications from the newly registered software application. Method of exchanging information between software applications in a network management and service provisioning environment comprising steps of:  Method of exchanging information as claimed in claim 18, further comprising the steps of:  Method of exchanging information as claimed in claim 19, wherein the step of using the at least one conveyed parameter value, further comprises a step of: applying a transformation to the at least one parameter value. <seperator>EP-1935430-A1<id_sep>subgroupC07K14slash435subgroup classC12class subgroupA61K38slash38subgroup subclassA61Ksubclass classA61class classC07class subgroupC12N15slash09subgroup subgroupC07K14slash76subgroup subclassC12Nsubclass sectionCsection subgroupA61K38slash37subgroup subclassC07Ksubclass subgroupC07K14slash755subgroup sectionAsection subgroupA61K38slash36subgroup Modified coagulation factors with prolonged in vivo half-life The present invention relates to modified nucleic acid sequences coding for coagulation factors preferably coagulation factor VIII and their derivatives, recombinant expression vectors containing such nucleic acid sequences, host cells transformed with such recombinant expression vectors, recombinant polypeptides and derivatives coded for by said nucleic acid sequences which recombinant polypeptides and derivatives do have biological activities and prolonged in vivo half-life compared to the unmodified wild-type protein. The invention also relates to corresponding sequences that result in improved in vitro stability. The present invention further relates to processes for the manufacture of such recombinant proteins and their derivatives are covered. The invention also relates to a transfer vector for use in human gene therapy, which comprises such modified nucleic acid sequences.  Field of the invention: The present invention relates to modified nucleic acid sequences coding for coagulation factors preferably coagulation factor VIII and their derivatives, recombinant expression vectors containing such nucleic acid sequences, host cells transformed with such recombinant expression vectors, recombinant polypeptides and derivatives coded for by said nucleic acid sequences which recombinant polypeptides and derivatives do have biological activities together with prolonged in vivo half-life and/or improved in vivo recovery compared to the unmodified wild-type protein. The invention also relates to corresponding sequences that result in improved in vitro stability. The present invention further relates to processes for the manufacture of such recombinant proteins and their derivatives. The invention also relates to a transfer vector for use in human gene therapy, which comprises such modified nucleic acid sequences. Background of the invention: There are various bleeding disorders caused by deficiencies of blood coagulation factors. The most common disorders are hemophilia A and B, resulting from deficiencies of blood coagulation factor VIII and IX, respectively. Another known bleeding disorder is von Willebrand's disease. Classic hemophilia or hemophilia A is an inherited bleeding disorder. It results from a chromosome X-linked deficiency of blood coagulation Factor VIII, and affects almost exclusively males with an incidence of between one and two individuals per 10.000. The X-chromosome defect is transmitted by female carriers who are not themselves hemophiliacs. The clinical manifestation of hemophilia A is an increased bleeding tendency. Before treatment with Factor VIII concentrates was introduced the mean life span for a person with severe hemophilia was less than 20 years. The use of concentrates of Factor VIII from plasma has considerably improved the situation for the hemophilia A patients increasing the mean life span extensively, giving most of them the possibility to live a more or less normal life. However, there have been certain problems with the plasma derived concentrates and their use, the most serious of which have been the transmission of viruses. So far, viruses causing hepatitis B, non-A non-B hepatitis and AIDS have hit the population seriously. Since then different virus inactivation methods and new highly purified Factor VIII concentrates have recently been developed which established a very high safety standard also for plasma derived Factor VIII. The cloning of the cDNA for Factor VIII ( The mature Factor VIII molecule consists of 2332 amino acids which can be grouped into three homologous A domains, two homologous C domains and a B Domain which are arranged in the order: A1-A2-B-A3-C1-C2. The complete amino acid sequence of mature human Factor VIII is shown in SEQ ID NO:2. During its secretion into plasma Factor VIII is processed intracellularly into a series of metal-ion linked heterodimers as single chain Factor VIII is cleaved at the B-A3 boundary and at different sites within the B-domain. This processing leads to heterogenoeous heavy chain molecules consisting of the A1, the A2 and various parts of the B-domain which have a molecular size ranging from 90 kDa to 200 kDa. The heavy chains are bound via a metal ion to the light chains, which consist of the A3, the C1 and the C2 domain ( A modified coagulation factor having at an internal region between the N-terminal amino acid and the C-terminal amino acid of the primary translation polypeptide of the coagulation factor an insertion of a half-life enhancing polypeptide (HLEP). A modified coagulation factor having at an internal region between the N-terminal amino acid and the C-terminal amino acid of the primary translation polypeptide of the coagulation factor an insertion of a half-life enhancing polypeptide (HLEP),  A modified coagulation factor having at an internal region between the N-terminal amino acid and the C-terminal amino acid of the primary translation polypeptide of the coagulation factor an insertion of a half-life enhancing polypeptide (HLEP),  A modified coagulation factor according to claims 1 and 2, which has a functional half-life increased by at least 25% as compared to the functional half-life of said coagulation factor lacking said insertion of a HLEP. A modified coagulation factor according to claim 3, which has a half-life of the coagulation factor antigen increased by at least 25% as compared to the functional half-life of said coagulation factor lacking said insertion of a HLEP. A modified coagulation factor according to claims 1 to 5 wherein the coagulation factor is separated from the HLEP during endogenous activation in vivo by proteolytic cleavage. A modified coagulation factor having at an internal region between the N-terminal amino acid and the C-terminal amino acid of the primary translation polypeptide of the coagulation factor an insertion of a half-life enhancing polypeptide (HLEP),  A modified coagulation factor according to claim 7, which has an in vivo recovery of the coagulation factor increased by at least 10% as compared to the in vivo recovery of said coagulation factor lacking said insertion of a HLEP. A modified coagulation factor according to claims 1 to 8, which has increased stability in serum-free culture media and/or in protein-free culture media, compared to the coagulation factor lacking said insertion. A modified coagulation factor according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the coagulation factor is selected from the group consisting of FVIII, von Willebrand factor, FV, and prothrombin factors. A modified coagulation factor according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the prothrombin factor is selected from the group consisting of factor VII, factor IX, factor X, protein C, protein S, protein Z and prothrombin. A modified coagulation factor according to claim 10, wherein the coagulation factor is FVIII. A modified coagulation factor according to claim 12, wherein the insertion of the HLEP is within the B-domain of FVIII. A modified coagulation factor according to claim 13, wherein the insertion of the HLEP is within the B-domain of FVIII and more than 75% of the B-domain is deleted or replaced by linker peptides. A modified coagulation factor according to any one of the preceding claims, which has at least 10% of the biological activity of the coagulation factor lacking said insertion. A modified coagulation factor according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the half-life enhancing polypeptide is selected from the group consisting of albumin family proteins and constant regions of immunoglobulins. A modified coagulation factor according to claim 16, wherein the half-life enhancing polypeptide is albumin or a fragment thereof. A modified coagulation factor according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the coagulation factor is FVIII, wherein the B-domain has been replaced partly or completely with human albumin. A polynucleotide or a group of polynucleotides, encoding a modified coagulation factor according to any one of claims 1 to 18. A plasmid or vector comprising a polynucleotide according to claim 19, or a group of plasmids or vectors, said group comprising the group of polynucleotides according to claim 19. A plasmid or vector or group of plasmids or vectors according to claim 20, said plasmid(s) or vector(s) being (an) expression vector(s). A vector or group of vectors according to claim 21, being (a) transfer vector(s) for use in human gene therapy. A host cell comprising a polynucleotide or a group of polynucleotides according to claim 19 or a plasmid or vector or a group of plasmids or vectors according to any one of claims 20 to 22. A method of producing a modified coagulation factor, comprising:  A pharmaceutical composition comprising a modified coagulation factor according to any one of claims 1 to 18, a polynucleotide or group of polynucleotides according to claim 19, or a plasmid or vector or a group of plasmids or vectors according to any one of claims 20 to 22. The use of a modified coagulation factor according to any one of claims 1 to 18, a polynucleotide or group of polynucleotides according to claim 19, or a plasmid or vector or group of plasmids or vectors according to any one of claims 20 to 22, or of a host cell according to claim 23 for the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment or prevention of a blood coagulation disorder. The use according to claim 26, wherein the blood coagulation disorder is hemophilia A. The use according to claim 26 or 27, wherein the treatment comprises human gene therapy. A method of preparing a modified coagulation factor having increased functional half-life, comprising inserting a half-life-enhancing polypeptide at an internal region of the amino acid sequence of said coagulation factor. A method for increasing the functional half-life of a coagulation factor, comprising inserting a half-life-enhancing polypeptide at an internal region of the amino acid sequence of said coagulation factor. A method for increasing the stability in serum- and protein-free culture media of a coagulation factor, comprising inserting a half-life-enhancing polypeptide at an internal region of the amino acid sequence of said coagulation factor. A method according to any one of claims 29 to 31, which comprises replacing the B-domain of FVIII or a part thereof with the half-life-enhancing polypeptide. <seperator>EP-1352614-A1<id_sep>subgroupA61B17slash22subgroup classA61class groupA61B17slash00group sectionAsection subclassA61Bsubclass Thrombectomy apparatus A thrombectomy apparatus (10) for breaking up thrombus or other obstructive material in a lumen of a vascular graft or vessel has a wire (30) and flexible sheath (20). The wire (30) is sinuous in configuration and has a straighter configuration in a first configuration and assumes its sinuous configuration when in a deployed configuration. The wire (30) is operatively connected to a motor (60) for rotation of the wire to enable peaks of the sinuous wire to contact a wall of the lumen to break up the thrombus or other obstructive material. The wire (30) is formed of an inner core (31) formed by a plurality of twisted wires and an outer wire (33) wound directly around the inner core. A distal portion (37) of the outer wire (33) extends distal of the inner core and progressively tapers towards a distal end to form a tapered region.   This application relates to a thrombectomy apparatus with an improved intravenous rotatable wire for clearing thrombus from dialysis grafts. Background of Related Art Hemodialysis is a well-known method of simulating renal (kidney) function by circulating blood. The kidneys are organs which function to extract water and urea, mineral salts, toxins, and other waste products from the blood with filtering units called nephrons. From the nephrons the collected waste is sent to the bladder for excretion. For patients suffering from chronic renal insufficiency, hemodialysis is life saving because it provides a machine to simulate the function of the kidneys, thereby enabling the patients to live independently between dialysis treatments. In the hemodialysis procedure, blood is withdrawn from the patient's body and transported to a dialysis machine, also commonly referred to as a kidney machine. In the dialysis machine, toxins and other waste products diffuse through a semipermeable membrane into a dialysis fluid closely matching the chemical composition of the blood. The filtered blood, i.e. with the waste products removed, is then returned to the patient's body. In one approach, an arteriovenous fistula is created so a high rate of blood flows from the artery into the patient's vein. The blood is then withdrawn directly from the patient's vein (native vein fistula) providing high rates of blood flow. Since this approach requires multiple needle sticks in the vein to withdraw and return the blood, the vein can eventually be damaged beyond usability, blood clots can form and the vein can fail. Once the vein fails, it could no longer be used for access and an alternate site must be utilized. To avoid the repetitive damage to the vein, dialysis grafts are used. These grafts, typically made of PTFE, are implanted under the patient's skin, typically in the patient's forearm, and the graft is sutured at one end to the vein (venous anastomosis) for outflow and at the other end to the artery (arterial anastomosis) for inflow. The graft is also typically a loop graft to provide greater access area. This graft, which functions as a shunt creating high blood flow from the artery to the vein, enables access to the patient's blood without having to directly puncture the vein. That is, the technician sticks the two needles into the graft to respectively withdraw and return blood to the patient, with the inlet on the arterial side for blood requiring filtration processing and the outlet on the vein side for return of processed blood from the dialysis machine. The dialysis graft, while providing an advantageous arrangement for hemodialysis, may become inoperable after a period of time due to thrombus or clots formed as a result of the high rate of blood flow through the graft and repetitive injury at the venous anastomosis. There have been various attempts to break up clots and other obstructing material in the graft. One approach is through injection of thrombolytic agents such as urokinase or streptokinase. These agents, however, are expensive, require lengthier hospital procedures and run the risks of drug toxicity and bleeding complications as the clots are broken. A thrombectomy apparatus for breaking up thrombus or other obstructive material in a lumen of a vascular graft or vessel, the apparatus having a flexible sheath (20) and a wire (30) positioned within the flexible sheath, the wire and flexible sheath being relatively movable so the wire has a first configuration and a second deployed configuration, the wire being sinuous in configuration and assuming its sinuous configuration when in the deployed configuration and having a straighter configuration in the first configuration, the wire being operatively connected to a motor (60) for rotation of the wire to enable peaks of the sinuous wire to contact a wall of the lumen to break up the thrombus or other obstructive material, characterized in that the wire (30) is formed of an inner core (31) formed by a plurality of twisted wires and an outer wire (33) wound directly around the inner core, a distal portion (37) of the outer wire extending distal of the inner core and progressively tapering towards a distal end to form a tapered region. A thrombectomy apparatus according to claim 1, characterized in that a soft blunt tip (40, 80) is affixed to the tapered region (37) of the outer wire (33). A thrombectomy apparatus according to claim 2, characterized in that the tapered region (37) of the outer wire (33) includes individual coils spread apart forming spaces therebetween and the soft blunt tip (40) is flexible and fills the spaces for a secure mechanical interlock of the tip on the tapered region of the wire. A thrombectomy apparatus according to claim 2 or 3, characterized in that the soft tip (40) is composed of an elastomeric material molded on the distal end of the wire (33) over the tapered region (37). A thrombectomy apparatus according to claim 2, characterized in that the soft tip (80) is flexible and includes a proximate portion having a blind bore (82) receiving the distal end of the wire (33) and secured thereon. A thrombectomy apparatus according to claim 5, characterized in that one or more swaged bands (84) encircle the proximate portion of the tip (80) to secure the tip on the distal end of the wire (33). A thrombectomy apparatus according to any preceding claim, characterized in that the tapered region of outer wire (33) includes individual coils spread apart forming spaces therebetween and in that the outer wire includes a tightly wound section proximate the tapered region (37). A thrombectomy apparatus according to any preceding claim, characterized in that the outer wire (33) has individual coils and the individual coils in the tapered region (37) are spread apart from each other by a distance approximately equal to a diameter of the wire of an individual coil. A thrombectomy apparatus according to any preceding claim, characterized in that the plurality of twisted wires of the inner core (31) are wound in a first direction and the outer wire (33) is tightly wound directly over the inner core in a direction opposite the first direction. A thrombectomy apparatus according to any preceding claim, characterized in that the outer wire (33) forms coils with essentially no spaces between adjacent coils and the coils of the outer wire have an inner diameter approximately equal to an outer diameter of the inner core (31). A thrombectomy apparatus according to any preceding claim, characterized in that the twisted wires of the inner core (31) and the outer wire (33) are composed of stainless steel, and in that at least some of the wires are heat treated at a temperature substantially less than 371 degrees Celsius and substantially greater than 149 degrees Celsius to retain the sinuous shape during rotation. A thrombectomy apparatus according to claim 11, characterized in that the heat treated wires (31, 33) are heat treated at a temperature of substantially about 260 degrees Celsius. A thrombectomy apparatus according to any preceding claim, characterized in that the inner wires (31) are heat treated at a temperature and for a sufficient time that the sinuous shape is retained for at least about 5 minutes when the wire is moved through a test fixture consisting of a return bent tube having an inner diameter approximating the inner diameter of a hemodialysis shunt and slightly greater than the maximum width of the wire in the area of the sinusoidal shape, without loss of physical integrity of the wire. A thrombectomy apparatus according to any preceding claim, characterized in that the tapered region (37) of the outer wire (33) has individual coils spread apart from each other and has a hollow interior space therein, and in that a flexible tip (40) is provided filling the spaces between the individual coils and the hollow interior space, the flexible tip extending distally beyond the tapered region of the wire and having a blunt distal end. A thrombectomy apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 13, characterized in that the tapered region (37) of the wire (33) has spread apart individual coils forming spaces therebetween such that molding of a flexible polymeric tip (40) in contact with the spread apart coils enables the polymer to flow between and to the interior of the coils, and the polymer is allowed to set to form the flexible tip on the tapered region of the wire. <seperator>EP-1571437-A1<id_sep>subclassC12Msubclass classC12class subgroupG01N1slash28subgroup sectionBsection classA61class subclassA61Msubclass subclassB01Lsubclass classB01class sectionGsection subgroupB01L3slash02subgroup classG01class subgroupG01N1slash34subgroup sectionCsection groupC12M1slash00group groupA61M3slash00group subclassG01Nsubclass subgroupG01N1slash10subgroup sectionAsection Apparatus for isolating nucleic acid, component thereof, and method for manufacturing apparatus for isolating nucleic acid It is an object of the present invention to further stabilize the efficiency of isolating nucleic acid concerning an apparatus for isolating nucleic acid. The present invention relates to an apparatus for isolating nucleic acid, the apparatus being provided with a meshed solid substance for binding nucleic acid. By employing the meshed solid substance for binding nucleic acid, fluid resistance can be reduced upon allowing a sample that includes nucleic acid to pass the solid substance for binding nucleic acid, while securing solid-phase volume that is sufficient for binding a large amount of nucleic acid. Consequently, even when the sample is allowed to pass the solid substance for binding nucleic acid at a high aspiration/dispense speed, force added to the solid substance for binding nucleic acid is small and the solid substance for binding nucleic acid is almost undistorted. The average pore size of the mesh that has an influence on the efficiency of binding nucleic acid by the meshed solid substance for binding nucleic acid is also almost unchanged. Therefore, the optimum state of the efficiency of isolating nucleic acid can be maintained.  The present invention relates to technology for eluting and extracting nucleic acid included in a biological sample, for example, from coexisting materials. In gene-related researches and technologies, the purification of nucleic acid is necessary by which nucleic acid included in a biological sample, such as blood, is extracted by elution from coexisting materials. Until today, various nucleic acid purification methods and apparatuses used for the methods have been proposed. JP Patent Publication (Kohyo) No. 2003-501644 A discloses a syringe type apparatus for processing samples. In this apparatus, a syringe filled with solid-phase bead groups capable of binding biological molecules, such as DNA, is used. Nucleic acid is captured by the solid-phase bead groups by allowing a sample that includes nucleic acid to pass through the solid-phase bead groups. The size of clearance of solid-phase bead groups has an influence on the efficiency of binding nucleic acid by the solid-phase beads, namely the probability of contact between the solid-phase beads and nucleic acid. However, in the aforementioned syringe type apparatus for processing samples, the clearance of the solid-phase bead groups varies by the passage of a sample when the sample that includes nucleic acid is allowed to pass the solid-phase bead groups disposed in a movable manner inside the syringe. Thus, the clearance of the solid-phase bead groups cannot be maintained in a state that is optimum for binding nucleic acid, so that the efficiency of isolating nucleic acid is not stable. It is an object of the present invention to further stabilize the efficiency of isolating nucleic acid concerning an apparatus for isolating nucleic acid. The present invention relates to an apparatus for isolating nucleic acid, the apparatus being provided with a meshed solid substance for binding nucleic acid. By employing the meshed solid substance for binding nucleic acid, fluid resistance can be reduced upon allowing a sample that includes nucleic acid to pass the solid substance for binding nucleic acid, while securing solid-phase volume that is sufficient for binding a large amount of nucleic acid. Consequently, even when the sample is allowed to pass the solid substance for binding nucleic acid at a high aspiration/dispense speed, force added to the solid substance for binding nucleic acid is small and the solid substance for binding nucleic acid is almost undistorted. The average pore size of the mesh that has an influence on the efficiency of binding nucleic acid by the meshed solid substance for binding nucleic acid is also almost unchanged. Therefore, the optimum state of the efficiency of isolating nucleic acid can be maintained. According to the present invention, the efficiency of isolating nucleic acid concerning an apparatus for isolating nucleic acid can be improved. The above and further objects and novel features of the invention will be more fully appear from the following detailed description when the same is read in connection with the accompanying drawings. It is to be expressly understood, however, that the drawing is for purpose of illustration only and is not intended as a definition of the limits of the invention. A syringe comprising:  An apparatus for isolating nucleic acid comprising:  The apparatus for isolating nucleic acid according to claim 2, wherein    said meshed solid substance for binding nucleic acid comprises an aggregate of a plurality of particles that include silica. The apparatus for isolating nucleic acid according to claim 2, comprising:  The apparatus for isolating nucleic acid according to claim 4, wherein    said holder is provided with a holding member for sandwiching both surfaces of said meshed solid substance for binding nucleic acid. The apparatus for isolating nucleic acid according to claim 2, comprising: A method for manufacturing an apparatus for isolating nucleic acid, comprising:  The method for manufacturing an apparatus for isolating nucleic acid according to claim 7, comprising:  The method for manufacturing an apparatus for isolating nucleic acid according to claim 7, comprising:  A holder wherein a meshed solid substance for binding nucleic acid is held, said holder being capable of being disposed inside a syringe body provided with a nozzle. The apparatus or holder according to claim 2 or 10, wherein    said meshed solid substance for binding nucleic acid comprises meshed fibers that include silica, wherein a plurality of fibers that include silica are adhered to one another. The apparatus or holder according to claim 2 or 10, wherein    the aspect ratio of said meshed solid substance for binding nucleic acid is not more than 1. The apparatus or holder according to claim 2 or 10, wherein    the average pore size of said meshed solid substance for binding nucleic acid is 0.2 to 30 µm. The holder according to claim 10, wherein    a holding member for sandwiching said meshed solid substance for binding nucleic acid is provided. The apparatus or holder according to claim 6 or 14, wherein    said holding member is mesh-shaped, wherein the average pore size is larger than that of said meshed solid substance for binding nucleic acid. The apparatus or holder according to claim 6 or 14, wherein    the circumferential portion of said meshed solid substance for binding nucleic acid is directly or indirectly compressed by said holding member. The apparatus or holder according to claim 6 or 14, wherein    said holding member is provided with a protruding portion whose shape is substantially the same as the circumferential portion of said meshed solid substance for binding nucleic acid. The apparatus or holder according to claim 6 or 14, wherein    a ring is inserted between said meshed solid substance for binding nucleic acid and said holding member, said ring having substantially the same shape as the circumferential portion of said meshed solid substance for binding nucleic acid. An apparatus for isolating nucleic acid comprising:  The apparatus for isolating nucleic acid according to claim 19, comprising:  An apparatus for isolating nucleic acid comprising:  <seperator>EP-1486318-A2<id_sep>classB29class groupB29C67slash00group subclassB29Csubclass sectionBsection Methods and system for producing an object through solid freeform fabrication A method of producing an object (210) through solid freeform fabrication, the method including fabricating a support structure (212) about at least a portion of the object (210) by applying a binder or focused energy to a build material. Solid freeform fabrication is a process for manufacturing three-dimensional objects, for example, prototype parts, production parts, models and working tools. Solid freeform fabrication is an additive process in which an object, which is described by electronic data, is automatically built, usually layer-by-layer, from base materials. There are a variety of different freeform fabrication systems that use different processes to form a desired object. Some systems eject the base material from which the object being formed is built up layer-by-layer. Other systems eject a binder selectively into a powdered base material. Many solid freeform fabrication systems require the construction of support structures that must be attached below or beside the object being formed. These structures support the object being formed until it is completed and solidified. For example, stereolithography, polymer jetting, jetted wax, and fused deposition systems can all require one or more support structures to be fabricated as part of the build process. The support structures of the systems mentioned above, however, create several issues. One of the issues associated with the support structures of current systems is the difficulty in removing that support structure from the object being fabricated after the fabrication process is complete. The support structures may be physically connected to the object being formed. Consequently, the process of removing the support structures may damage the object being formed. Another issue with current systems is the general requirement for support structures to be relatively dense. Support structures range from polymer jetting, where every voxel of the object is supported, to stereolithography, where a matrix of relatively dense support structures is built to support the object in a liquid bath. These dense support structures can be both expensive and time consuming to fabricate. However, another family of solid freeform fabrication systems is powder-based. Powder-based systems generally create objects by ejecting a binder onto a flat bed of powdered build material. Each powder layer may be dispensed or spread as a dry powder or a slurry within a build area. Wherever a binder is selectively ejected into the powder layer, the powder is bound into a cross section or layer of the object being formed. It is also possible to use focused energy to bind the powder together. Selective laser sintering (SLS) is an example of this approach. In a powder-based system, unbound powder acts as the primary support for the object being formed. This is advantageous compared to the systems mentioned above, because no explicit support structures are needed. Thus, there are no support structures to remove, no material is wasted to create the support structures, and no machine throughput availability is sacrificed for building support structures. In addition, all of the unbound powder can be removed and reused. However, one of the issues with powder-based systems is the difficulty in achieving tightly packed powder in the build regions of the fabrication machines. Many factors may cause the powder to shift or settle after layers of powder are spread. Some of the factors that cause powder shifting and/or settling may include mechanical vibration of the system equipment, spreading of subsequent layers, and settling of the powder under the weight of an object being produced in the build area. A method of producing an object (210) through solid freeform fabrication, said method comprising fabricating a support structure (212) about at least a portion of said object (210) by applying a binder or focused energy to a build material. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one layer (226) or voxel of build material separates said support structure (212) from said object (210). The method of claims 1 to 2, wherein said support structure (212) comprises one or more pillars (218) built below said object (210). The method of claims 1 to 3, wherein said one or more pillars (218) are sparsely arranged below said object (210). The method of claims 1 to 4, wherein said support structure (212) further comprises a wall (440) disposed at least partially around said object (210). The method of claims 1 to 5, wherein said support structure (212) further comprises one or more pillars (606) disposed between object features (602/604) or stacked objects (600/612). A solid freeform fabrication apparatus comprising:  The apparatus of claim 7, wherein said binder device comprises a focused energy or a liquid ejection apparatus comprising inkjet technology. The apparatus of claims 7 to 8, wherein said support structure (212) comprises one or more pillars (218) built below said object (210). The apparatus of claims 7 to 9, wherein said pillars (218) are sparsely arranged and comprise an aggregate footprint area of about 10 - 100% of an object footprint area. The apparatus of claims 7 to 10,wherein said support structure (212) comprises a continuous or discontinuous wall (440) disposed around said object (210) and extending to a base (229) of said bin (102). <seperator>EP-1693778-A1<id_sep>subgroupG06K7slash10subgroup subgroupG06K7slash08subgroup sectionGsection classG06class subclassG06Ksubclass Shelf system having a label detecting system for reading out RFID labels The shelf system is provided with a rack and a label detection system for generating an electromagnetic interrogation field for reading out RFID labels which are located in or on the rack. The label detection system is provided with a first and a second antenna system for transmitting an interrogation field. The label detection system is arranged for generating the interrogation field in the form of a rotary field with the first and the second antenna system. The invention relates to a shelf system provided with a rack and a label detection system for generating an electromagnetic interrogation field for reading out RFID labels located in or on the rack. The invention further relates to a label detection system of the shelf system, and a shelf of the shelf system. Such shelf systems are known per se. An obvious solution for taking stock of the articles on a shelf is using an RFID reader with a large detection antenna behind the shelf. Therewith, the RFID labels of the products are read. However, a number of drawbacks of this solution become immediately apparent. The detection area is not clearly delimited; it is not possible to draw a sharp line between on the shelf and from the shelf. Customer-oriented action, based on taking an article from a shelf for shops, requires a quick reaction of the system, and a delimited work area. In addition, in such a set-up with a single antenna, there are positions where the labels do not couple with the antenna, and which are therefore not seen. What is also important here is a protocol with which quickly scanning many labels is possible (also called multiscan). In WO 2004/012134 (Philips), such a protocol is described. Known are also the data of a number of ICs of Philips with such a protocol: I.CODE EPC smart label IC, and closely related thereto is I.CODE UID Smart label IC. In this protocol, the label selects a response in a time lock. The number of time locks from which a selection can be made is transmitted by the reader to the label with the read-out command. The chance that different labels select a same time lock depends on the number of labels in the field and the number of time locks that is made available. However, using many time locks takes a long time; this makes the system slow. With few time locks, there is a high risk of collisions, and the multiscan needs to be repeated, which also takes up extra time. A large receiving antenna, which may optionally be combined with the transmitting antenna for generating the magnetic field activating the labels (also called interrogation field), couples all labels within reach. This antenna coil contains the response of all labels which are active. In general, many collisions will occur, and multiple scans are needed to detect all labels. The use of small separate receiving antenna coils which do not couple with the transmitting coil allows the translation of a spatial sep aration of transponders into signal intensity differences on these receiving coils. This allows increasing the reading speed of transponders. This principle is known from WO 94/19781 (NEDAP), however only in combination with a single transmitting coil. What is also provided here is simultaneous reading of labels according to the so-called "tag talks first" principle. In the present invention, this is a "reader talks first" protocol. In EP 1 298 573 (3 M), an RFID system with many antennas is described. The distance between an RFID label in a book and one of the many antennas is small. One by one, one of the many antennas is selected and thus an RFID tag in the proximity can be read. Due to the sequential character of this approach, the system is slow and not suitable for quickly taking stock of all labels. In addition, it is based on the labels being in a book and therefore having a known orientation. Synchronization of a carrier wave (generating, for instance, the interrogation field in the antenna) of multiple transmitters which are in one another's range is known per se, see US 57988709 (TI) in which a master RF module is used to control multiple readers. A shelf system provided with a rack and a label detection system for generating an electromagnetic interrogation field for reading out RFID labels which are located in or on the rack,  A shelf system according to claim 1, wherein the rack is provided with a first shelf and a second shelf, wherein the first antenna system has been added to the first shelf and the second antenna system has been added to the second shelf. A shelf system according to claim 2, wherein the first antenna system extends substantially parallel to the first shelf and/or the second antenna system extends substantially parallel to the second shelf. A shelf system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the first and/or the second antenna system comprises at least two sub-loops which are interconnected in antiphase. A shelf system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the first antenna system has been shifted with respect to the second antenna system in a direction in a plane in which the first antenna system extends. A shelf system according to claims 4 and 5, wherein the first antenna system has been shifted with respect to the second antenna system over substantially half a width of at least one of the sub-loops. A shelf system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the label detection system is arranged for feeding a first signal to the first antenna system with a 90-degree phase difference with respect to a second signal fed to the second antenna system. A shelf system according to at least claim 2, wherein, to the first shelf, further a first auxiliary antenna system has been added and/or, to the second shelf, further a second auxiliary antenna system has been added, wherein the first antenna system and the first auxiliary antenna system, respectively, are relatively positioned such that a magnetic coupling between the first antenna system and the first auxiliary antenna system is minimal, and/or the second antenna system and the second auxiliary antenna system, respectively, are relatively positioned such that a magnetic coupling between the second antenna system and the second auxiliary antenna system is minimal. A shelf system according to claims 4 and 8, wherein, in use, through a sub-loop of the first antenna system, a first magnetic flux goes from at least a part of a first sub-loop of the first auxiliary antenna system and a substantially equally great, oppositely directed flux from at least a part of a second sub-loop of the first auxiliary antenna system and/or, through a sub-loop of the second antenna system, a first magnetic flux goes from at least a part of a first sub-loop of the second auxiliary antenna system and a substantially equally great, oppositely directed flux from at least a part of a second sub-loop of the second auxiliary antenna system, respectively. A shelf system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the label detection system is further provided with at least one receiving antenna for reading out RFID labels, wherein the at least one receiving antenna does not couple with antenna systems and/or auxiliary antenna systems. A shelf system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the label detection system comprises a memory for storing a list of RFID labels detected in the rack therein. A shelf system according to claim 11, wherein, per detected RFID label, the list comprises as parameters: a signal intensity of the two sidebands, and/or a phase of the label signal, and/or a number of a shelf on which the label has been detected, and/or a number of a receiving channel and/or the field configuration used, and/or a detection percentage of the respective label, and/or information with respect to an article to which the label is attached, and/or information with respect to the person who has placed the label in the rack and/or has taken it from the shelf. A shelf system according to claim 11 or 12, wherein the label detection system is arranged for carrying out a single scan for detecting a predetermined label from the list of detected labels, for instance utilizing the field configuration included in the list for that label. A shelf system according to claim 13, wherein the rack is arranged for at least carrying out a single scan with at least two mutually different field configurations, if it has been detected that a label has been removed from the rack, for detecting the label detected as being removed. A shelf system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the first and/or second antenna system, an optionally a first and/or second transmitting device of the label detection system which is connected with the first and/or second antenna system, respectively, has been integrated in the first and/or second shelf, respectively, or in a first and/or second insert module, respectively, which is arranged to be placed on, to or in the first and/or second shelf, respectively. A shelf system according to claim 15, wherein the first and second transmitting device are, preferably wirelessly, coupled for synchronizing interrogation fields to be generated by the first and second transmitting device. A shelf system according to any one of the preceding claims, comprising at least an RFID label. A shelf according to any one of the preceding claims, comprising a plurality of racks. A shelf system comprising a rack with multiple shelves for reading out RFID labels, wherein all antenna coils have been accommodated in the shelf,  A shelf system according to claim 19,  A shelf system according to claim 19,  A shelf system according to one or more of the preceding claims 19-21,  A shelf system according to one or more of the preceding claims 19-22,  A shelf system according to one or more of the preceding claims 19-23,  A shelf system according to one or more of the preceding claims 19-24,  A shelf system according to one or more of the preceding claims 19-25,  A shelf system according to one or more of the preceding claims 19-26,  A shelf system according to one or more of the preceding claims 19-27,  A shelf system according to one or more of the preceding claims 19-28,  A shelf system according to one or more of the preceding claims 19-29,  A shelf system according to one or more of the preceding claims 19-30,  A shelf system according to any one of claims 1-18 and any one of claims 19-31. A label detection system of a shelf system according to any one of the preceding claims. A shelf or insert module of a shelf system according to any one of claims 1-32. <seperator>EP-1474992-A1<id_sep>groupA21D2slash00group subclassA23Gsubclass subgroupA21D2slash14subgroup classA21class subclassA21Dsubclass subclassA23Dsubclass subgroupA23D7slash005subgroup groupC11B5slash00group subgroupA23D7slash01subgroup sectionCsection classC11class subclassC11Bsubclass subclassA23Lsubclass groupA23G1slash00group sectionAsection subgroupA23L1slash30subgroup subgroupA23D9slash007subgroup classA23class UBIQUINONE-ENRICHED FOODS To provide a ubiquinone supplementation food which is obtained by adding a composition containing ubiquinone and an oil/fat; an edible oil/fat composition which contains ubiquinone; a process for producing a ubiquinone supplementation food which comprises dissolving ubiquinone in an oil/fat under heating, and adding the obtained mixture to a food material; a method for preventing precipitation and/or localization of ubiquinone in a food which comprises producing a food by dissolving ubiquinone in an oil/fat under heating and adding the obtained mixture to a food material; and a method for supplying ubiquinone which comprises ingesting said foods. The present invention relates to a ubiquinone-enriched food which can supply ubiquinone, a substance indispensable to the living body but liable to be decreased and become short of requirements due to aging and stresses, with ease through ingestion in the same ways as the ordinary foods in daily living, uses thereof, and processes for producing said food. Ubiquinone is a benzoquinone derivative distributed broadly in the living world. Ubiquinone is localized in mitochondria, lysosomes, Golgi bodies, microsomes, peroxisomes, cell membranes, etc., are substances indispensable for the maintenance of biological functions as constituents of the electron transport system, and are known to be involved in activation of ATP production, antioxidant activity in the living body, and membrane stabilization. Since ubiquinone is not only supplied from diets but also biosynthesized in the body, it might be considered that the necessary amount of ubiquinone is available in the normal state but it is known that actually the ubiquinone content in the body is markedly decreased due to aging and various stresses to which the living body is subjected. For example, it is reported that whereas the ubiquinone content in the human heart in the 19 to 21 years of age is 110.0 µg/g, the content is drastically reduced to less than one-half, namely 47.2 µg/g, in the 77 to 81 years of age [Kalen, A. et al., Lipids, 24, 579-584 (1989)]. Moreover, the ubiquinone content in plasma is decreased in uremic patients, patients under chronic hemodialysis treatment, and patients with various allergic diseases as compared with healthy persons [Triolo, L., Nephron, 66, 153-156 (1994); Folkers, K., BioFactors, 1, 303-306 (1988)]. In patients with hyperlipemia, the ubiquinone content in the LDL cholesterol fraction is decreased [Kontush, A., et al., Atherosclerosis, 129, 119-126 (1997)]. Furthermore, it has been pointed out that administration of cholesterol synthesis inhibitors which are in common use today as therapeutic drugs for hypercholesterolemia inhibits the biosynthesis of ubiquinone as well, causing depressions in ubiquinone concentration in tissues [E. L. Appelkvist et al., Clinical Investigator, 71, S97-S102 (1993)]. In addition, decreases in the tissue concentration are suspected under conditions favoring production of peroxides in the living body, such as strenuous exercises or overfatigue. Decreases in the ubiquinone content in the body characteristically lead to depressions in ATP productivity and cardiac function, decreased resistance to oxidation stress, and instability of the biomembranes, thus being deleterious to health. To make up for a shortage of ubiquinone is instrumental for promoting energy production in mitochondria, enhancing the antioxidant capacity of the living body, and maintenance of homeostasis. In fact, elevation of the cardiac function due to administration of ubiquinone has been reported [Kishi, T. et al., Clin. Investg., 71, S71-S75 (1993)]; ameliorating efficacy in cardiac diseases such as congestive heart failure, angina pectoris, myocardial infarction, etc. by ubiquinone [Singh, R. B. et al., Inter. J. Cardiology, 68, 23-29 (1999), Singh, R. B. et al., Cardiovasc. Drugs Ther., 12, 347-353 (1998)]; preventive and ameliorative efficacy in atherosclerosis, hypertension, diabetes, neoplastic diseases, periodontal diseases, and allergies [Singh, RB. et al., Atherosclerosis, 148, 275-282 (1999), Digiesi, V., et al., Curr. Therap. Res., 51, 668-672 (1992), Kishi, T., et al., Journal of Dental Health, 43, 667-672 (1993), Shimura Y., et al., Rinsho-to-Kenkyu, 58, 1349-1352 (1981)]; reproductive performance-improving effect, inhibition of oxidation of LDL cholesterol, dialysis frequency-reducing effect in renal dialysis patients, nonspecific immunity-potentiating effect, and the like are known [Stocker et al., Mol. Aspects Med., 18, S85-S103 (1997), Lippa, S., Mol. Aspects Med., 15, S213-S219 (1994)]. Furthermore, ubiquinone is already in use clinically as a therapeutic drug for the palpitation, short breadth, and anasarca arising from congestive heart failure or mild heart diseases. A ubiquinone supplementation food    which is obtainable by adding a composition containing ubiquinone and an oil/fat. The ubiquinone supplementation food according to Claim 1,    which contains 0.001 to 50% by weight of ubiquinone based on the total weight of the food. The ubiquinone supplementation food according to Claim 1 or 2,    which contains 0.01 to 50% by weight of ubiquinone based on the total weight of the oil/fat. The ubiquinone supplementation food according to any one of Claims 1 to 3,    wherein the oil/fat has a melting point of not lower than 20°C. The ubiquinone supplementation food according to Claim 4,    wherein the composition containing ubiquinone and an oil/fat is obtainable by dissolving ubiquinone in the oil/fat having a melting point of not lower than 20°C under heating, and solidifying or plasticizing the obtained mixture, or preparing the obtained mixture into an oil-in-water emulsion or a water-in-oil emulsion. The ubiquinone supplementation food according to any one of Claims 1 to 3,    wherein the oil/fat has a melting point of below 20°C. The ubiquinone supplementation food according to Claim 6,    wherein the composition containing ubiquinone and an oil/fat is obtainable by dissolving ubiquinone in the oil/fat having a melting point of below 20°C under heating, and preparing the obtained mixture into an oil-in-water emulsion. The ubiquinone supplementation food according to any one of Claims 1 to 7,    which is at least one species selected from the group consisting of edible oils/fats, milk, dairy products, sauces, breads, pies, cakes, confections, roux, seasoning liquors, ice confections, noodles, processed foods, boiled rice preparations, jams, canned foods, and beverages. The ubiquinone supplementation food according to any one of Claims 1 to 8,    which further contains an antioxidant and/or an edible color. The ubiquinone supplementation food according to Claim 9,    wherein the antioxidant and/or edible color is at least one species selected from the group consisting of ascorbyl palmitate, ascorbyl stearate, catechin, lecithin, tocopherol, tocotrienol, lignan, and carotenoid. An edible oil/fat composition    which contains ubiquinone. The edible oil/fat composition according to Claim 11,    which contains 0.01 to 50% by weight of ubiquinone based on the total weight of the oil/fat composition. The edible oil/fat composition according to Claim 11 or 12,    which further contains an antioxidant and/or an edible color. The edible oil/fat composition according to Claim 13,    wherein the antioxidant and/or edible color is at least one species selected from the group consisting of ascorbyl palmitate, ascorbyl stearate, catechin, lecithin, tocopherol, tocotrienol, lignan, and carotenoid. A process for producing a ubiquinone supplementation food    which comprises dissolving ubiquinone in an oil/fat under heating, and adding the obtained mixture to a food material. The process according to Claim 15,    wherein the oil/fat has a melting point of not lower than 20°C, and the mixture to be added to a food material is obtainable by dissolving ubiquinone in said oil/fat under heating, and solidifying or plasticizing the resultant, or preparing the resultant into an oil-in-water emulsion or a water-in-oil emulsion. The process according to Claim 15,    wherein the oil/fat has a melting point of below 20°C, and the mixture to be added to a food material is obtainable by dissolving ubiquinone in said oil/fat under heating, and preparing the obtained mixture into an oil-in-water emulsion. A ubiquinone supplementation food    which is obtainable by the process according to any one of Claims 15 to 17. A method for preventing precipitation and/or localization of ubiquinone in a food    which comprises producing a food by dissolving ubiquinone in an oil/fat under heating and adding the obtained mixture to a food material. The method according to Claim 19,    wherein the oil/fat has a melting point of not lower than 20°C, and the mixture to be added to the food material is obtainable by dissolving ubiquinone in said oil/fat under heating, and solidifying or plasticizing the resultant, or preparing the resultant into an oil-in-water emulsion or a water-in-oil emulsion. The method according to Claim 19,    wherein the oil/fat has a melting point of below 20°C, and the mixture to be added to the food material is obtainable by dissolving ubiquinone in said oil/fat under heating, and preparing the resultant into an oil-in-water emulsion. A method for supplying ubiquinone    which comprises ingesting the food according to any one of Claims 1 to 14 or 18. <seperator>EP-1536052-A2<id_sep>sectionDsection subclassD06Fsubclass subgroupD06F43slash08subgroup groupD06F43slash00group classD06class Non-aqueous washing machine and methods The invention relates to a non-aqueous washing machine, methods of using the machine, methods of washing, and recycling.   The invention relates to a non-aqueous laundering machine, methods of using the machine, methods of washing, drying and reclamation.  The present invention generally relates to apparati, methods, and chemistries employed in the home for laundering clothing and fabrics. More particularly, it relates to a new and improved method, apparatus, and chemistry for home laundering of a fabric load using a wash liquor comprising a multi-phase mixture of a substantially inert working fluid (IWF) and at least one washing adjuvant. As used herein, the terms "substantially non-reactive" or "substantially inert" when used to describe a component of a wash liquor or washing fluid, means a non-solvent, non-detersive fluid that under ordinary or normal washing conditions, e.g. at pressures of 0 Pa to 0.5 x 10 Home laundering of fabrics is usually performed in an automatic washing machine and occasionally by hand. These methods employ water as the major component of the washing fluid. Cleaning adjuvants such as detergents, enzymes, bleaches and fabric softeners are added and mixed with the water at appropriate stages of the wash cycle to provide cleaning, whitening, softening, and the like. Although improvements in automatic washing machines and in cleaning agent formulations are steadily being made, as a general rule, conventional home laundering methods consume considerable amounts of water, energy, and time. Water-based methods are not suitable for some natural fiber fabrics, such as silks, woolens and linens, so that whole classes of garments and fabrics cannot be home laundered, but instead, must be sent out for professional dry cleaning. During water washing, the clothes become saturated with water and some fibers swell and absorb water. After washing, the water must be removed from the clothes. Typically, this is performed in a two-step process including a hard spin cycle in the washer and a full drying cycle in an automatic dryer. The hard spin cycles tend to cause undesirable wrinkling. Even after spinning, drying cycle times are undesirably long. The solution to this problem was the advent of the traditional dry cleaning business. Consumers had to travel to the dry cleaners, drop off clothes, pay for dry cleaning, and pick the clothes up. While the dry cleaning process is useful to the consumer, it plays terrible havoc with the environment. Traditional dry cleaning uses halogenated hydrocarbons, such as perchloroethylene (nefariously known as "perc"). Because the use of perc is calamitous, strict environmental regulations exist to control its use and disposition. The stricter controls sent many in the dry cleaning industry towards petroleum-based solvents. These solvents are inflammable and are smog-producers. Accordingly, the use of these solvents in the home is out of the question. A further non-aqueous solvent based washing method employs liquid or supercritical carbon dioxide solvent as a washing liquid. As described in U.S. Pat. No. 5,467,492, highly pressurized vessels are required to perform this washing method. In accordance with these methods, pressures of about 3.45 x 10 Various perfluorocarbon materials have been employed alone or in combination with cleaning additives for washing printed circuit boards and other electrical substrates, as described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 5,503,681. Spray cleaning of rigid substrates is very different from laundering soft fabric loads. Moreover, cleaning of electrical substrates is performed in high technology manufacturing facilities employing a multi-stage apparatus which is not readily adapted for home use. A method of drying fabrics in a closed-loop system comprising the steps of:  The method of claim 1 wherein said non-reactive, non-aqueous, non-oleophilic, apolar working fluid under standard conditions is further characterized by: a KB value less than approximately 30; a surface tension less than approximately 35 dynes/cm2; and a solubility in water less than 10%. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of removing said residual working fluid vapor and water vapor comprises contacting the air stream with a desiccant for removal of the water from the air stream. The method of claim 1 including a direct spray treatment for removing residual working fluid vapor and water vapor from the air stream comprising the steps of: The method of claim 1 wherein a compressor driven refrigeration system having a condenser and an evaporator is provided, and said evaporator is used to provide at least some of the cooling specified in said step of cooling and the condenser is used to provide at least some of the heating specified in said step of heating. The method of claim 1 wherein removing residual working fluid vapor and water vapor from the air stream comprises contacting the air stream with a high speed spinning disc. An apparatus for cleaning fabrics with a substantially non-reactive, non-aqueous, non-oleophilic, apolar working fluid comprising: a container for providing relative movement of the fabric to be cleaned;    means for introducing said working fluid and at least one washing adjuvant to said container;    means for withdrawing said working fluid from said container and returning it to said container;    means for passing an air stream through the fabric;    a heater constructed and arranged to heat the air stream prior to contacting the fabric to a temperature not exceeding approximately 17 °C (30°F) below the flash of said working fluid; and    a condenser constructed and arranged to cool the air stream leaving the fabric to a degree sufficient to remove working fluid and water vapor. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said non-reactive, non-aqueous, non-oleophilic, apolar working fluid under standard conditions is further characterized by: a KB value less than approximately 30; a surface tension less than approximately 35 dynes/cm2; and a solubility in water less than 10% The apparatus of claim 7 including a level sensor for detecting the level of said working fluid in the container, said level sensor being isolated from said working fluid and being constructed and arranged to record pressure changes in the level of said working fluid. The apparatus of claim 7 including means for sensing the humidity of the fabric prior to contact by said working fluid. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein conductivity is used to detect the initial moisture level of the fabric. The apparatus of claim 7 including a temperature sensing means inside the container and means controlled by said sensing means to ensure that the temperature does not exceed 17 °C (30 °F) below the flash point of said working fluid. The apparatus of claim 7 including a temperature sensor placed on the outlet of the heater and constructed and arranged to ensure that the temperature does not exceed 17 °C (30 °F) below the flash point of the working fluid. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the condenser is a spinning disc. <seperator>EP-1795332-A1<id_sep>subgroupB29C70slash04subgroup sectionBsection subclassB29Dsubclass groupB29D24slash00group subclassB29Csubclass subclassB32Bsubclass subgroupB29C70slash54subgroup classB29class subgroupB32B3slash28subgroup subgroupB29C70slash08subgroup subgroupB29C70slash48subgroup classB32class Hollow cell core composite articles molded with liquid resin and method of fabrication A hollow core composite assembly (10) is provided, including a hollow core base (12) having an open core surface (14), a solid film, for example a polyetherketoneketone film (22) applied to the hollow core base (12), and an adhesive layer (24) positioned between the solid film (22) and the open core surface (14). The resultant hollow core composite assembly (10) is cured to provide a structure suitable for use within a liquid molding process. A hollow core composite assembly (10) is provided, including a hollow core base (12) having at least one open core surface (14), a bondable solid film (22) applied to the open core surface (14), at least one dry face ply (30) laid up dry and placed on top of the solid film (22), and a liquid resin (32) applied to the at least one dry face ply (30) and then cured.  The present invention relates generally to hollow cell core composite articles and more particularly to a liquid molded honeycomb core composite articles. The cornerstone of aeronautics, avionics, and spacecraft design has been the ability to design lightweight components that maintain structural strength and integrity. These characteristics play a crucial role not only in traditional design considerations such as flight capabilities and structural integrity, but also play a crucial role in the adaptability and commercial performance of a given craft design. Reduced weight and structural fortitude can play a significant role in fuel consumption, craft profile, and cargo and/or passenger capacity. The increase in profitability associated with the aforementioned factors, as well as a variety of others, has provided strong motivation for design advancements in the area of strength/weight improvement. A significant advancement in the development of low weight/high strength structures was the development of the hollow cell cores, such as honeycomb cores. Hollow cell cores provide a high strength structural base while minimizing the negative effects of the weight associated with the core material by containing voids within the core material that provide for significant weight savings as compared to a solid component. The high strength/low weight characteristic of hollow cell cores has therefore resulted in the popularity of their use within the aeronautics industry as well as a variety of other industries. Despite the popularity of hollow cell core materials, such as honeycomb cores, there use has not been suitable for certain manufacturing processes. Liquid molding processes, for example, can present problems when applied to hollow cell core materials. Liquid molding composite manufacturing processes, such as resin transfer molding, vacuum assisted resin infusion, vacuum infusion molding, and others, present fundamental concerns for the use of hollow cell core materials. When these processes are used, it is possible for the hollow cells to fill with liquid resin prior to curing. This can make the resulting structure resin rich, heavy, and generally undesirable. It would be highly desirable to have the ability to apply liquid molding approaches to hollow cell core materials without the concerns for compromised cells. Numerous approaches have been developed in an attempt to solve the hollow cell core/liquid molding dilemma. Often, however, the resulting solutions add undesirable weight and/or production costs to the resulting hollow core composite articles. One solution pre-processes the core to seal the cells with film adhesive, or film adhesive and prepreg, prior to liquid molding composite article fabrication to prevent liquid molding resin from penetrating the cells. Other processes include filling the hollow cells, for example, with a closed cell foam or material. This, however, often adds undesirable weight to the resulting article. Precured composite sheets autoclaved to the hollow cell core add additional weight and require a costly autoclaving process. Although a variety of other attempts are known to seal the hollow cell core, often these attempts result in undesirable weight increases, increases in the number of processing steps, and undesirable cost increases. It would, therefore, be highly desirable to have a method for sealing hollow cell core material such that the hollow cell core material may be successfully used with known liquid molding approaches without penetration of the hollow cells by the liquid molding. In addition, it would be highly desirable for such a protective hollow cell core material to withstand liquid molding approaches without undesirable increases in weight or the requirement for costly manufacturing processes. A hollow core composite assembly, comprising:  A hollow core composite according to claim 1, wherein said at least one dry face ply includes a plurality of dry face plies. A hollow core composite assembly according to claims 1 or 2, wherein said hollow core base is a honeycomb core. A hollow core composite according to any of the preceding claims wherein said liquid resin is applied to said at least one dry face ply using one or more of the following: resin transfer molding, vacuum assisted resin transfer molding, vacuum assisted resin infusion. A hollow core composite assembly according to any of the preceding claims wherein said at least one adhesive layer is an uncured adhesive film. A hollow core composite assembly according to any of the preceding claims further comprising a PEKK (polyetherketoneketone) film affixed to said at least one open core surface whereby the adhesive layer is positioned between the open core surface and the PEKK film. A hollow core composite assembly according to any of the preceding claims wherein the adhesive layer comprises one or more of the following: epoxy paste adhesive, cyanate ester paste adhesive, thermoset adhesive, a thermoplastic adhesive, a hot melt adhesive, a BMI paste adhesive. A method of producing a hollow core composite assembly comprising the steps of:  A method of producing a hollow core composite assembly as described in claim 8, further comprising curing said solid film to said open core surface by said applying liquid resin. A method of producing a hollow core composite assembly according to claim 8 or 9, further comprising precuring said solid film to said open core surface. A method of producing a hollow core composite assembly according to any of the claims 8-10, wherein said applying liquid resin is accomplished utilizing one or more of the following, a resin transfer molding process, vacuum assisted resin transfer molding process, vacuum assisted resin infusion. A method of producing a hollow core composite according to claim 11, further comprising applying a PEKK film onto said open core surface. A method of producing a hollow core composite according to claim 12, wherein  the adhesive film is applied to an outer side of said PEKK film. A method of producing a hollow core composite according to claims 12 or 13, comprising pre-curing said uncured adhesive layer and said PEKK film to the hollow core base. A method according to claim 14, wherein curing said uncured adhesive layer and said PEKK film to the hollow core base form part of the liquid molding application process. A hollow core composite assembly, obtainable according to any of the claims 8-15. Aircraft comprising a hollow core composite according to any of the claims 1-7, 16. <seperator>EP-1314609-A2<id_sep>subgroupH01H25slash04subgroup sectionHsection sectionBsection subclassH01Hsubclass classH01class subgroupB60Q1slash34subgroup subgroupB60Q1slash42subgroup subclassB60Qsubclass classB60class Canceling structure of combination switch A canceling structure of a combination switch is disclosed, which ensures the returning moment of a cancel cam without increasing the size of a spring. A cancel cam 20 placed on a swing block that can be rotated with a control lever includes pressure contact surfaces 22 on a plane passing through the shaft center of an upper shaft 9b, and the upper shaft 9b is guided along a long hole 9b of a cover. An elastic contact material 30 has pressure surfaces 32 to be brought into contact with the pressure contact surfaces of the cancel cam, and is biased toward the cancel cam along a guide 6d by a coil spring 11 inserted into a blind hole 12b. The pressure surfaces 32 have a shaft-escaping recessed portion 34 forming a predetermined gap between them and the upper shaft 9b when brought into contact with the pressure contact surfaces of the cancel cam. Since the pressure contact surfaces pass through the rotating shaft center, the angel from the shaft center to a contact point with the pressure surface 32, thereby increasing a returning moment by the pressure of the elastic contact material. Also, since the elastic contact material is long, the movement along the guide becomes smooth. The present invention relates to a canceling structure of a combination switch, such as a turn signal switch for activating, for example, a turn signal lamp of a vehicle. As such a canceling structure, there is a canceling structure of a turn signal switch as previously proposed by the inventor in JP-A-2001-10406. A turn signal switch incorporating this canceling structure is shown in Figs. 4 and 5. In this case, a swing block 2 having a control lever 1 is rotatably supported by a casing 3 and a cover 6 around a shaft 2a, and a cancel cam 9 is disposed between the swing block 2 and the cover 6. Referring to Fig. 5, the control lever 1 can be rotated vertically in the direction shown by arrows C and D around a lever shaft Q relative to the swing block 2; however, referring to Fig. 4, the control lever 1 is rotated horizontally in the direction shown by arrows A and B along with the swing block 2 around the shaft 2a to move in the direction corresponding to the rotation of a steering shaft 14. The swing block 2 includes an arm 2k for pushing a moderate body 8 at the end thereof biased by a moderate spring 7 against a moderate groove 3b formed in the casing 3. An upper shaft 9b of the cancel cam 9 can be moved along a long hole 6b formed in the cover 6 in a normal mode. As particularly shown in an enlarged view of Fig. 6, the cancel cam 9 is biased longitudinally toward a steering shaft 14 by a coil spring 11 via an elastic contact material 12. In the drawing, reference numeral 6d denotes a guide formed at the lower surface of the cover 6 and guides the elastic contact material 12 on the line connecting the steering shaft 14 with the shaft 2a of the swing block 2. Returning to Figs. 4 and 5, the swing block 2 is provided with a support groove 2c for receiving a lower shaft 9a coaxial with the upper shaft 9b of the cancel cam 9. The support groove 2c includes an angular projection 2d at the center thereof in the direction from the steering shaft 14 toward the shaft 2a of the swing block 2. When the control lever 1 is in a neutral position, the lower shaft 9a of the cancel cam 9 is positioned at the top of the angular projection 2d and a butting portion 9c is positioned out of a rotating path of the cancel pin 10. As shown in Fig. 6, the cancel cam 9 includes a pressure contact surface 9e in contact with the upper shaft 9b and coming into contact with a pushing face 12a of the elastic contact material 12, the butting portion 9c extending toward the steering shaft 14, and a pressure portion 9d extending toward the shaft 2a for pushing against a cam guide 13, which will be described later. Fig. 7 is an enlarged perspective view showing the cancel cam 9, the elastic contact material 12, and the coil spring 11. A canceling structure of a combination switch rotatably holding a swing block for supporting a control lever on a fixing side, in which when the control lever is rotated from a neutral position, a cancel cam moves into the path of a cancel pin with the rotation of the swing block, and the cancel cam biases the swing block with the movement of the cancel pin in the opposite direction from the operating direction of the control lever, thereby returning the control lever to the neutral position, wherein:  The canceling structure of a combination switch of claim 1, wherein:  <seperator>EP-1382306-A2<id_sep>groupA61B19slash00group classA61class subgroupA61B17slash12subgroup subgroupA61B17slash135subgroup subgroupA61B17slash132subgroup sectionAsection subclassA61Bsubclass Hemostatic device with inflatable balloon A hemostatic device (1) includes a flexible band (2) adapted to be wrapped around a patient's limb at a site on the limb where bleeding is to be stopped, a portion (3) for securing the band in a wrapped state to the limb, a curved plate (4) which is made of a material more rigid than the band and at least a portion of which is curved toward the inner peripheral side thereof, a main balloon (5) which is provided on the inner peripheral side of the curved plate and which inflates when a fluid is introduced therein, and a pressing member (6) which is provided between the curved plate and the main balloon so that at least a portion thereof overlaps with the balloon and which is adapted for pressing against the balloon. The device provides an excellent hemostatic effect and prevents numbness and poor circulation in areas peripheral to the site of attachment.  The present invention relates to a hemostatic device, and more particularly to a hemostatic device which is attached to a patient's limb at a site on the limb where bleeding is to be stopped and which, by the inflation of a balloon, applies pressure to the site so as to stop bleeding. When a procedure involving the percutaneous insertion of an instrument such as a catheter into a blood vessel is carried out for medical treatment, examination or diagnosis, bleeding at the puncture site must be stopped following subsequent withdrawal and removal of the catheter. Hemostatic devices which are attached by being wrapped around the portion of an arm or leg where the puncture site is located and compress the puncture site where bleeding is to be stopped are already known in the prior art (e.g., JP 3031486 U). In such prior-art hemostatic devices, the pressure applied to the site where bleeding is to be stopped is directed in a substantially vertically downward direction, and the hemostatic effect in this pressing direction is inadequate. Therefore, complete hemostatis sometimes does not occur or takes a long time to achieve. Moreover, prior-art hemostatic devices apply pressure not only to the puncture site where bleeding is to be stopped, but to the surrounding area as well. Hence, other tissues are also compressed, including other blood vessels and nerves, sometimes resulting in numbness and poor blood circulation. To keep this from happening, a health care practitioner such as a physician or nurse must lower the compressive force over time by carrying out manual operations to reduce the balloon pressure or loosen the band, which is inefficient and inconvenient. In addition, when using such prior-art hemostatic devices, the health care practitioner visually sights the balloon into place over the puncture site. It has been pointed out that this makes the balloon difficult to position properly. In fact, due to poor positioning of the balloon, a hematoma may form or blood leakage may occur because of the inability to stop bleeding. It is therefore one object of the invention to provide a hemostatic device which has an excellent hemostatic effect. A second object of the invention is to provide a hemostatic device which spontaneously (that is, without manipulation by a health care practitioner such as a physician or nurse--sometimes referred to hereinafter as the "operator") eases over time the pressure applied by the balloon, thus helping to prevent harmful effects from the continued application of pressure, such as numbness, pain and vascular blockage. A third object of the invention is to provide a hemostatic device which enables a balloon for compressing a puncture site (a site where blood flow is to be stopped) to be easily positioned at the site, and thus minimizes blood leakage and hematoma formation due to poor positioning of the balloon. These objects are achieved by the prevent invention as set forth in (1) to (40) below. These and other objects, features and advantages of the invention will become more apparent upon consideration of the following detailed description and the accompanying drawings. A hemostatic device comprising:  The hemostatic device of claim 1, wherein the pressing member presses against the main balloon toward substantially the center of the limb. The hemostatic device of claim 1, wherein the pressing member is a secondary balloon which, when filled with a fluid, presses against the main balloon under the influence of pressure by the fluid. The hemostatic device of claim 3, wherein the secondary balloon inflates with the introduction of a fluid therein. The hemostatic device of claim 4 having a means for communicating between an interior portion of the main balloon and an interior portion of the secondary balloon. The hemostatic device of claim 1, wherein the pressing member is smaller than the main balloon. The hemostatic device of claim 1, wherein the pressing member is positioned near one end of the curved plate in the lengthwise direction of the band. The hemostatic device of claim 1, wherein the main balloon is in a position deviated to one end of the curved plate in the lengthwise direction of the band. The hemostatic device of claim 8, wherein the curved plate has a center portion and, at least on a side on which the main balloon is positioned, a portion which has a smaller radius of curvature than said center portion. The hemostatic device of claim 1, wherein the main balloon is connected only on one side thereof to the band. The hemostatic device of claim 1, wherein the pressing member is connected only on one side thereof to the band. A hemostatic device comprising:  The hemostatic device of claim 12, wherein the balloon is in a position deviated to one end of the curved plate in the lengthwise direction of the band and is connected only on the one side thereof to the band. The hemostatic device of claim 13, wherein the curved plate has a center portion and, at least on a side on which the balloon is positioned, a portion which has a smaller radius of curvature than said center portion. A hemostatic device comprising:  The hemostatic device of claim 15 having also a curved plate with an inner peripheral side, which plate is provided so as to overlap with the balloon, and at least a portion of which is curved toward the inner peripheral side. The hemostatic device of claim 15 having also a pressing member which is provided between the curved plate and the balloon so that at least a portion thereof overlaps with the balloon and which is adapted for pressing against the balloon. The hemostatic device of claim 15, wherein the decrease in the internal pressure of the balloon arises from deformation over time in the band or the balloon or both the band and the balloon. The hemostatic device of claim 15, wherein the band has a tensile modulus of at most 10 gf/mm2. The hemostatic device of claim 15, wherein the band wrapped around the patient's limb has an elongation percentage 180 minutes after balloon inflation of 1 to 7%. A hemostatic device comprising:  The hemostatic device of claim 21, wherein the band and the balloon are made of materials which allow visualization of the site where bleeding is to be stopped. The hemostatic device of claim 21, wherein the marker is provided on the balloon. The hemostatic device of claim 21, wherein the marker is provided on the band. The hemostatic device of claim 21, wherein the band holds a curved plate made of a material more rigid than the band in such a way that the curved plate overlaps with the balloon. The hemostatic device of claim 21 having a pressing member which is provided between the curved plate and the balloon so that at least a portion thereof overlaps with the balloon and which is adapted for pressing against the balloon. The hemostatic device of claim 25, wherein the marker is provided on the curved plate. The hemostatic device of claim 26, wherein the marker is provided on the pressing member. <seperator>EP-1330993-A1<id_sep>subgroupA61F2slash82subgroup classA61class subgroupA61F2slash06subgroup subclassA61Fsubclass subgroupA61F2slash84subgroup sectionAsection Covered segmented stent A covered stent (10) comprises individual stent rings (20) alternately loaded inside (25) and outside (30) of the covering material (40), wherein the rings (20) are not connected to adjacent rings (20) along the longitudinal axis.  The present invention generally relates to medical devices, particularly stents and covered stents. More particularly, the present invention is directed to a covered stent comprising individual stent rings loaded inside and outside of the covering material. As background to a discussion of stents, one notes that in the 1970s, the technique of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) was developed for the treatment of atherosclerosis. Atherosclerosis is the build-up of fatty deposits or plaque on the inner walls of a patient's arteries; these lesions decrease the effective size of the artery lumen and limit blood flow through the artery, prospectively causing a myocardial infarction or heart attack if the lesions occur in coronary arteries that supply oxygenated blood to the heart muscles. The term stenosis refers to a narrowing or restriction in the diameter of a tubular structure, such as an artery. As a separate point, the application of balloon angioplasty to certain blood vessels has been limited by the risk of forming emboli during the procedure. For example, when angioplasty is applied to lesions in the carotid artery, there is the possibility of dislodging plaque from the lesion, which can enter the various arterial vessels of the brain and cause permanent brain damage. In the angioplasty procedure, a guide wire is inserted into the femoral artery and is passed through the aorta into the diseased coronary artery. A catheter having a balloon attached to its distal end is advanced along the guide wire to a point where the sclerotic lesions limit blood flow through the coronary artery. The balloon is then inflated, compressing the lesions radially outward against the wall of the artery and substantially increasing the size of its internal lumen, to improve blood circulation through the artery. A stent is a generally longitudinal tubular device formed of biocompatible material, and is useful in the treatment of stenoses, strictures or aneurysms in body vessels such as blood vessels. These devices are implanted within the vessel to reinforce collapsing, partially occluded, weakened or abnormally dilated sections of the vessel. Stents are typically employed after angioplasty of a blood vessel to prevent restenosis of the diseased vessel. While stents are most notably used in blood vessels, stents may also be implanted in other body vessels such as the urogenital tract and the bile duct. Stents generally include an open flexible configuration. This configuration allows the stent to be inserted through curved vessels. Furthermore, the stent configuration allows the stent to be configured in a radially compressed state for intraluminal catheter implantation. In the present time, it is the case that stents are increasingly being used in place of or in addition to PTCA for treatment of atherosclerosis, with the intent of minimizing the need to repeatedly open an atherosclerotic artery. In fact, the passage through the atherosclerotic artery is so small, that the area of a stenosis often needs to be predilated with a small and low profile balloon in order to be able to position the stent delivery device and to deliver a self-expandable stent at the desired location of the stenosis. The need to predilate the artery necessitates the passage of a low profile balloon through the area of stenosis, dilatation of the artery, and removal of the predilatation balloon, followed by passage of the stent deployment device through the same area of stenosis. This manipulation of the balloon and then the stent within the narrowed artery, which contains irregular and friable plaque, can cause thromboembolic complications. (Friable plaque has the gross pathological appearance of degenerated, loose, fibroatheromatous debris. For example, dislodgment of a fragment of plaque can cause a stroke if it is not caught before it passes into the brain.) A covered stent comprising individual stent rings alternately loaded inside and outside a covering material, wherein the rings are not connected longitudinally. The stent of claim 1 wherein the covering material is selected from the group consisting of ePTFE and PET. The stent of claim 1 wherein the stent rings loaded inside the covering material are stronger than the stent rings loaded outside the covering material. The stent of claim 1 wherein some of the stent is uncovered to aid in anchoring the vessel. The stent of claim 1 wherein foreshortening is reduced in comparison to a longitudinally connected stent. The stent of claim 1 wherein there are no perforations through the covering material. The stent of claim 1 where the stent rings loaded inside the covering are larger in their unconstrained state than the stents loaded on the outside of the covering. The stent of claim 1 where gaps between alternating stent rings when expanded are of sufficient length to prevent touching of the stent structures when they are crimped to the diameter at which they are delivered. The stent of claim 1 where the features of the adjacent stent rings are aligned so that they do not interfere with one another when the composite stent is placed in a bend. The stent of claim 1 wherein the covering material is selected from the group consisting of ePTFE, PET, UHMWPE (ultra high molecular weight polyethylene), polyester polyarylate, and PEEK (polyester ether ketone). <seperator>EP-1522309-A1<id_sep>groupA61P35slash00group subclassA61Ksubclass classA61class subgroupA61K36slash185subgroup subclassA61Psubclass subgroupA61K36slash38subgroup sectionAsection Lipophilic extracts of hypericum perforatum for the therapy of cancer The application describes pharmaceutically active lipophilic extracts from Hypericum perforatum and their use as medicaments to treat cancers, such as bladder cancer. Methods of preparation of the extracts are also provided.  The invention relates to pharmaceutically active extracts from Hypericum perforatum, and in particular to lipophilic extracts from the plant. These extracts are used as medicaments to treat cancer. Methods of producing the extracts are also provided. Bladder cancer, related to many environmental carcinogens and tobacco smoke, is a major disease with over 50.000 new cases and approximately 10.000 deaths per year in the U.S.A. alone (1). Variable morphology, natural history, and prognosis demonstrate that transitional cell carcinoma (TCC) of the bladder is not a single disease, but occurs in three distinct forms, each possessing characteristic features (that is, low grade papillary; noninvasive carcinoma in situ; high grade, invasive). Recent studies have begun to elucidate the underlying genetic determinants of the morphologic and biologic characteristics of these different presentations of bladder cancer (2). More than 50% of new bladder cancer cases are superficial or superficially invasive. These types of tumors are considered to have low invasive potential with a progression rate to invasive cancer of 15% to 20%. However, 50% to 90% patients with these types of cancer have recurrence within 12 months after resection (3-5). The necessity for early adjuvant treatment and mainly intravesical installations of immuno- or chemotherapeutics in the management of high-risk superficial bladder tumors is recognized globally and it is based on the hope that this treatment, by altering the neoplastic potential of the urothelium (6), may hopefully reduce the risk for recurrence and progression, which are the most worrisome problems in the management of superficial bladder cancer (7). According to a WHO survey, 80% of the world population still rely on herbal medicine as their primary source for therapy (8). In the Western world almost 25% of the active components of currently prescribed drugs were first identified in higher plants (9), and over half of the 50 most used drugs today are derived from plant material (10). Over 60% of chemotherapeutic agents in the treatment of cancer are derived from natural substances (11), and some of the more commonly utilized drugs are still fractionated from plant material (12). The lack of reliable preclinical models, concerns about the consistency and reproducibility of the chemical content, and the absence of knowledge of the mechanisms of actions of botanicals have been cited as obstacles to the pharmacological development of botanical agents. Hypericum perforatum L (St. John's wort) has been used for centuries in the treatment of burns, bruises, swelling, inflammation, and anxiety, as well as bacterial and viral infections (13). The use of its top flowering parts was originally documented by ancient Greek medical herbalists Hippocrates, Theophrastus, and Dioscorides (14, 15). Locally it is traditionally used both externally and internally with many therapeutic applications (16). The name "hypericum" is derived from Greek and means "over an apparition", a reference to the belief that the herb was so obnoxious to evil spirits, that a whiff of it would cause them to fly. In the last two decades, anti-inflammatory, anti-microbial, antiviral, and antidepressant activities have been attributed to the total extract of the herb or single constituents (17-20). Today hypericum is becoming increasingly popular for the treatment of mild to moderate depression (21, 22). In Germany it is prescribed approximately 20 times more often than fluoxetine one of the most highly prescribed antidepressants in the United States (23). Extract of this drug used in therapy today are prepared by extracting the dried upper aerial part of the plant using ethanol:water or methanol:water mixtures. To date, the antidepressant pharmacological activity of H. perforatum is not fully understood, although from what is known about its mechanism of action the extract may have pharmacological properties similar to conventional antidepressants (22). It is possible to attribute the pharmacological effects not to specific compounds but to the combined action of a variety of its constituents. It is for this reason that the total extract has to be regarded as the active principle of the herb. A lipophilic extract of Hypericum perforatum for use as a medicament to prevent and treat cancer. A method of preventing and treating cancer comprising administering a pharmaceutically effective amount of a lipophilic extract of Hypericum perforatum. A method of producing a pharmaceutically active lipophilic extract of Hypericum perforatum comprising:  A method of producing a pharmaceutically active lipophilic extract of Hypericum perforatum according to claim 3 comprising:  A method according to claim 3 or claim 4, wherein the alcoholic solvent is methanol. A method according to claims 3 to 5, wherein the non-polar solvent is petroleum ether. A method according to any one of claims 3 to 6, additionally comprising the step further purifying the lipophilic extract to identify one or more compounds from that extract having anticancer activity. A method according to any one of claims 3 to 7, additionally comprising the step of mixing the lipophilic extract with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers, adjuvants or vehicles. A pharmaceutically active composition obtainable by a method according to any one of claims 3 to 8. A pharmaceutically active composition according to claim 9 for use as a medicament to treat cancer. A method of treating cancer comprising administering a pharmaceutically effective amount of an extract according to claim 8. Use of a method according to claims 1, 2, 10 or 11, wherein the cancer is a bladder cancer. A method according to claim 12, wherein the extract is administered into the bladder Amended claims in accordance with Rule 86(2) EPC. 1. Use of a lipophilic extract of Hypericum perforatum for the preparation of a medicament containing a pharmaceutically effective amount to prevent and treat bladder cancer. 2. A method of producing the pharmaceutically active lipophilic extract of Hypericum perforatum according to claim 2 comprising:  3. A method according to claim 2, wherein the alcoholic solvent is methanol. 4. A method according to claims 2 to 3, wherein the non-polar solvent is petroleum ether. 5. A method according to any one of claims 2 to 4, additionally comprising the step further purifying the lipophilic extract to identify more active fraction of the extract. 6. A method according to any one of claims 2 to 6, additionally comprising the step of mixing the lipophilic extract produced in claims 2 to 5 with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers, adjuvants or vehicles. 7. Use of a pharmaceutically active composition obtainable by a method according to any one of claims 2 to 7 to prevent and treat bladder cancer, wherein the extract is administered into the bladder. <seperator>EP-1517469-A1<id_sep>classH04class subclassH04Lsubclass sectionHsection subgroupH04L12slash14subgroup Method, system and computer program product for online charging in a communications network The invention is intended to create an online charging method for an end user session comprising at least one first charging session and at least one second charging session. The invention is based on using a combination pricing plan as response to a number of different charging requests, and determining the charging by said combination pricing plan, by using during the end user session different proxy components to identify service requests according to different service identification request rules, each proxy component using individual service identification rules.  The present invention relates to a method, according to the preamble of Claim 1, for managing online charging in the communications network. The invention also relates to another method, according to the preamble of Claim 24, to a third method, according to preamble of Claim 25, to first means, according to the preamble of Claim 34, to second means, according to the preamble of Claim 57, to third means, according to the preamble of Claim 58, and to a computer program product according to the preamble of Claim 67. Methods of this kind are used, for example for charging the non-voice services of prepaid customers, coordinating charging for a multimedia session between a mobile terminal and a remote host on both an application/media level and on an IP/access bearer level, and for minimizing credit losses caused by subscribers, while at the same time maintaining good performance of the system. The traditional IN-based Prepaid Systems have been designed for charging the voice calls of prepaid customers. Already today prepaid subscribers form the majority of the total worldwide customer base and they want to be able to use the same services as the postpaid users. Until now, the lack of open, real-time charging solution has been slowing down the service deployment in prepaid environment. Patent publication WO 02/37870 discloses one mechanism for coordinating charging for a multimedia session between a mobile terminal and a remote host on both an application/media level and on an IP/access bearer level. A token associated with the multimedia session is generated and used to correlate session charges for operations performed in the packet-switched access network and for operations performed in the multimedia system. Although the actual charging, and especially controlling the availability of services among the user session, is not described in the publication. Actually, the publication describes how to correlate different kind of events together in multimedia environment. These functions have been done equivalently for many years in conventional networks such as GSM networks. Patent publication WO 02/67156 describes another method for control of billing in a communications network. The objective is to accomplish a mechanism for minimizing credit losses caused by subscribers, while at the same time maintaining good performance of the system. A gateway receives service requests and filters out the requests for which the analysis performed indicates that a credit loss risk is involved. For these service requests an in-advance credit check is initiated. If the credit check indicates that the delivery is permissible, a reservation is made for the amount of money corresponding to the service price, i.e. the said sum is reserved in the subscriber account so that said sum cannot be used by another service request in the meantime. When the service has been delivered successfully, the reservation is confirmed and the said sum is debited from the balance of the subscriber account. Otherwise, the reservation is cancelled. This publication concentrates to check the credit of subscriber and reserving money from the account of the subscriber when needed. Drawbacks appear in the state of art when faster end user session management, especially charging, is required or desired. Operations requiring faster end user session charging can not be performed and operations desiring faster end user charging are performed inconveniently. An example of operations that require faster end user session charging is online service offered to an unknown client. An example of operation that is performed inconveniently is practical necessity to give one's credit card number to unreliable host for charging Internet purchases. Method for managing online charging in communications networks, the method comprising:  A method according to Claim 1, characterized by at least one first network element being a proxy component (fig. 4) or proxy application and at least one second network element being a proxy component (fig. 4) or application to identify service requests according to different service identification request rules, each proxy component using individual service identification rules. A method according to Claim 1 or 2, characterized by being performed in a online mediation environment (101, 102 - 112). A method according to any of Claims 1 - 3 characterized by (1001 - 1007) combining and managing access, media and service level charging under a pricing plan mechanism which enables the changing of charging rules within an active charging session. A method according to any of Claims 1 - 4 characterized by provisioning (fig. 11, fig. 12) service identification rules to the network layer control nodes or proxy applications. A method according to any of Claims 1 - 5, characterized by a core operating by accepting (figs. 4 - 5) online charging requests from the controlling nodes. A method according to any of Claims 1 - 6, characterized by the communication between core and the control nodes being interactive (figs. 4 - 5), providing a request-response method of communicating. A method according to any of Claims 1 - 9, characterized by the control nodes requesting (803) permission and authorization for a transaction from the core. A method according to Claim 8, characterized by the requesting being request permission (803, 805 - 807) for certain bearer volume with certain service type or request permission for certain message or download transaction. A method according to any of Claims 1 - 9, characterized by the control nodes performing (fig. 4) the initial traffic classification into service types, and performing elementary data aggregation. A method according to Claim 10, characterized by using the classification (fig. 5) to help to reduce the traffic required between the control nodes and the system. A method according to any of Claims 1 - 11, characterized by the information received (fig. 4) from control nodes notifying that the user is now roaming. A method according to any of Claims 1 - 12, characterized by providing (fig. 4) online different protocol adaptations between the different control nodes, and the internal representation of charging transactions. A method according to any of Claims 1 - 13, characterized by control node interfaces layer hiding (fig.4 - fig.5) the different control nodes from the core. A method according to any of Claims 1 - 14, characterized by including a method for creating charging model in communications network, comprising the steps of  A method according to Claim 15, characterized by including a step of checking (201) whether the system withholds an active charging session for the end user in question. A method according to any of Claims 15 - 16, characterized by including a step of creating a charging session for combining at least two charging requests under a single pricing plan. A method according to any of Claims 15 - 17, characterized by including a step of checking (1102) whether the identified pricing plan includes service identification activation rules. A method according to any of Claims 15 - 18, characterized by including a step of provisioning (1104) the said service identification rules to network elements, if the pricing plan indicates that provisioning is required. A method according to any of Claims 15 - 19, characterized by including a step of updating (1105) a charging rule within the charging session whenever the pricing plan indicates that the rule should be changed. A method according to any of Claims 15 - 20, characterized by the said step of checking a pricing plan for the incoming charging request further comprising at least one of the steps of  A method according to any of Claims 17 - 21, characterized by the step of creating and maintaining charging session further comprising at least one of the steps of  A method according to any of Claims 19 - 22, characterized by the said step of provisioning request identification ruling further comprising at least one of the steps of  Method for setting identification criteria for online charging in communications networks, the method comprising:  Method for setting charging rule cache, characterized by founding (1001 - 1007) an end user session and changing or setting charging cache rules according to the valid pricing model, and editing rules taking into account if the charging of the service in one proxy component, affect to the charging of at least one other proxy component. A method according to Claim 25, characterized by a user charging session, which is opened as response to a user creating a data session. A method according to Claim 26 characterized by opening resulting initial balance reservation to authorize the session creation. A method according to any of Claims 25 - 27 characterized by charging transactions being synchronized to enable realization of also complicated charging models. A method according to Claim 28 characterized by synchronization being performed by business logic and charging model synchronization layer. A method according to any of Claims 25 - 29 characterized by the business logic returning an updated charging rule cache to the session layer. A method according to any of Claims 25 - 30 characterized by charging session being opened and closed even immediately as soon as the event delivery is confirmed by the control node. A method according to any of Claims 25 - 31, characterized by including a method of any of Claims 1 - 22. A method according to one of the Claims 1 - 32, characterized by including a method of the claim 23. Means for managing online charging in communications networks, the means comprising:  Means according to Claim 34, characterized including at least one first network element being a proxy component (fig. 4) or proxy application and at least one second network element being a proxy component (fig. 4) or application to identify service requests according to different service identification request rules, each proxy component using individual service identification rules. Means according to Claim 34 or 35, characterized by including means for operating in a online mediation environment (101, 102 - 112). Means according to any of Claims 34 - 36 characterized by (1001 - 1007) including means for combining and managing access, media and service level charging under a pricing plan mechanism which enables the changing of charging rules within an active charging session. Means according to any of Claims 34 - 37 characterized by including means for provisioning (fig. 11, fig. 12) service identification rules to the network layer control nodes or proxy applications. Means according to any of Claims 34 - 38, characterized by including means for a core to operate by accepting (figs. 4 - 5) online charging requests from the controlling nodes. Means according to any of Claims 34 - 39, characterized by including the means for interactive communication (figs. 4 - 5) between core and the control nodes, providing a request-response means for communicating. Means according to any of Claims 34 - 40, characterized by including means for the control nodes to request (803) permission and authorization for a transaction from the core. Means according to Claim 41, characterized by means for to request permission including means for requesting permission (803, 805 - 807) for certain bearer volume with certain service type or request permission for certain message or download transaction. Means according to any of Claims 34 - 42, characterized by means for the control nodes to perform (fig. 4) the initial traffic classification into service types, and perform elementary data aggregation. Means according to Claim 43, characterized by means for using the classification (fig. 5) to help to reduce the traffic required between the control nodes and the system. Means according to any of Claims 34 - 44, characterized by means for the information received (fig. 4) from control nodes notifying that the user is now roaming. Means according to any of Claims 34 - 45, characterized by providing means (fig. 4) for online different protocol adaptation between the different control nodes, and the internal representation of charging transactions. Means according to any of Claims 34 - 46, characterized by means for control node interfaces layer hiding (fig. 4 - fig. 5) the different control nodes from the core. Means according to any of Claims 34 - 47, characterized by including a means for creating charging model in communications network, comprising:  Means according to Claim 48, characterized by including means for checking (201) whether the system withholds an active charging session for the end user in question. Means according to any of Claims 48 - 49, characterized by including means for creating a charging session for combining at least two charging requests under a single pricing plan. Means according to any of Claims 48 - 50, characterized by including means for checking (1102) whether the identified pricing plan includes service identification activation rules. Means according to any of Claims 48 - 51, characterized by including means for provisioning (1104) the said service identification rules to network elements, if the pricing plan indicates that provisioning is required. Means according to any of Claims 48 - 52, characterized by including means for updating (1105) a charging rule within the charging session whenever the pricing plan indicates that the rule should be changed. Means according to any of Claims 48 - 53, characterized by the means for checking a pricing plan for the incoming charging request further comprising at least one of the following  Means according to any of Claims 50 - 54, characterized by including means for creating and maintaining charging session further comprising at least one of the following:  Means according to any of Claims 52 - 55, characterized by including means for the said step of provisioning request identification ruling further comprising at least one of the following:  Means for setting identification criteria for online charging in communications networks, the method comprising:  Means for setting charging rule cache, characterized by including means for founding (1001 - 1007) an end user session and changing or setting charging cache rules according to the valid pricing model, and editing rules taking into account if the charging of the service in one proxy component, affect to the charging of at least one other proxy component. Means according to Claim 58, characterized by including means for a user charging session, which is opened as response to a user creating a data session. Means according to Claim 59 characterized by including means for opening resulting initial balance reservation to authorize the session creation. Means according to any of Claims 57 - 60 characterized by including means for charging transactions to be synchronized to enable realization of also complicated charging models. Means according to Claim 61 characterized by including means for synchronization to be performed by business logic and charging model synchronization layer. Means according to any of Claims 57 - 62 characterized by including means for the business logic to return an updated charging rule cache to the session layer. Means according to any of Claims 57 - 63 characterized by including means for charging session to be opened and closed even immediately as soon as the event delivery is confirmed by the control node. Means according to any of Claims 57 - 64, characterized by including means of any of Claims 33 - 56. Means according to one of the Claims 1 - 31, characterized by including means of the claim 65. A Computer program product, characterized by including means of one of the claims 33 - 66, the means being computer readable. <seperator>EP-1288875-A2<id_sep>subclassG07Fsubclass subgroupG07F17slash32subgroup sectionGsection subgroupA63F5slash04subgroup classA63class subclassA63Fsubclass sectionAsection classG07class Gaming apparatus and gaming apparatus control method The invention provides a gaming apparatus which is equipped with a basic game and bonus games and is improved in entertainment value by means of adoption of new type of game development. The gaming apparatus has a display having a plurality of display areas, on which areas symbols are to be displayed, and a controller. Under specific requirements irrelevant to a result of another bonus game, there is performed a corresponding bonus game matching the requirements. Further, when at leas one of a plurality of bonus games (i.e., a second bonus game) is executed when the specific requirements have been satisfied or when a specific result has been accomplished through another bonus game (i.e., a first bonus game).  BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Field of the Invention The invention relates to a gaming apparatus, a gaming apparatus control method, a program, and a computer-readable recording medium, wherein symbols are displayed in a plurality of display areas and an award is to be given to a player on the basis of the arrangement of symbols. Background Art A slot machine is a typical gaming apparatus which determines symbols to be displayed in a plurality of display areas through use of random numbers and determines occurrence of a win on the basis of the arrangement of symbols appearing in the display areas. By virtue of a recent game boom, slot machines have achieved high popularity in amusement arcades. As measures for attracting a player's interests, slot machines provided with so-called bonus games have come into fashion. A reward or tokens are paid to a player in accordance with a result of a bonus game. Such slot machines having a so-called bonus game are becoming increasingly popular as compared with slot machines providing mere slot games. The conventional gaming apparatus suffers the following problems. Namely, in the conventional gaming apparatus, when a predetermined arrangement has been determined by symbols in, e.g., a basic slot game, a bonus game is executed. After completion of the bonus game, the next slot game is started. Thus, the flow of games is comparatively monotonous. Therefore, players who seek excitation cannot be satisfied with a gaming machine with such an existing bonus game and await the advent of a new gaming apparatus. The invention has been made to solve the drawback set forth and aims at providing a gaming apparatus, a gaming apparatus control method, a program, and a computer-readable recording medium, which offer a basic game and bonus games and enhance entertainment value by providing a new development of a game. Summary of the Invention  By means of the program set forth and by means of causing a computer to execute such a program recorded on a recording medium, there can be yielded advantages such as those described in connection with the gaming apparatus and the method of controlling the gaming apparatus. Specifically, processing can proceed from a basic game to any of a plurality of bonus games such that the player can proceed from the basic game to a bonus game. Further, processing can proceed from at least one bonus game to another bonus game such that the player can proceed from at least one of the bonus games to another bonus game. Thus, a new type of development of the game can be implemented, thereby enhancing entertainment value. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS  DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION A preferred embodiment of the invention will be described in detail hereinbelow by reference to the accompanying drawings. Like elements are assigned like reference numerals, and their repeated explanations may be omitted. Fig. 1 is an external perspective view showing a slotmachine (gaming machine) 10 of this embodiment. The slot machine 10 has a display 20 which is provided in a lower portion of a housing 40 and digitally displays a slot game and a plurality of bonus games. A second display 30 is provided in an upper portion of the housing 40 for digitally displaying a sub-game to be described later or a like game. The main display 20 and the second display 30 are both liquid-crystal display devices. The main display 20 serves as a touch screen. As will be described in detail later, two types of bonus games are available, that is, a first bonus game and a second bonus game. A gaming apparatus comprising:  The gaming apparatus according to claim 1,    wherein, in one of the plurality of bonus games, the controller selects one of the plurality of types of symbols appearing on the plurality of display areas on the display; and    wherein the controller selects and executes another bonus game according to the selected type of symbol. A slot machine which includes a display having a plurality of display areas in which a plurality of types of symbols are variably displayed, and which determines occurrence of a win based on an arrangement of symbols appearing in the respective display areas, the machine comprising:  The slot machine according to claim 3, comprising:  A method for controlling a gaming apparatus which includes a display having a plurality of display areas in which a plurality of types of symbols are variably displayed, and a controller for controlling details to be displayed on the display, the method comprising:  The method for controlling the gaming apparatus according to claim 5, further comprising:  A program to be used for executing:  A computer-readable recordingmedium storing the program as claimed in claim 7. <seperator>EP-1411553-A1<id_sep>sectionHsection groupH01F17slash00group subgroupH01L23slash48subgroup classH01class subgroupH05K3slash46subgroup subgroupH01L27slash06subgroup subgroupH01L23slash498subgroup subgroupH05K3slash28subgroup subclassH01Lsubclass subclassH01Fsubclass subgroupH05K1slash16subgroup subclassH05Ksubclass subgroupH05K3slash34subgroup classH05class subgroupH01L27slash08subgroup ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT COMPONENT Through an improvement of module size increase due to mounting a single passive element on a substrate and an increase in the mounting cost, to provide a highly reliable, high performance and small sized electronic circuit component which permits to integrate a variety of electronic parts such as capacitors, inductors and resistors in a high density with low cost. The electronic circuit component comprises an insulator substrate, a plurality of electrodes having different areas provided on the insulator substrate, one or more elements selected from a capacitor element of dielectric material sandwiched between the electrodes, an inductor element and resistor element, a metal wiring connecting the elements, a metal terminal part of a part of the metal wiring and an organic insulator material covering the elements and the circumference of the metal wiring portion excluding the metal terminal portion.  The present invention relates to an electronic part and the manufacturing method thereof, in particular, relates to a technology which is effective when being applied to an electronic part using glass for the substrate and a manufacturing method therefore. JP-A-8-255981 discloses a technology in which, by using an exposing process for a photo sensitive material with ultraviolet light, microscopic via holes and wirings are formed on a glass substrate. In the document, through forming a light shielding film of a metal constituting of such as Ti, Cr, Al, Ni, W, Mo, Ta and Cu on the glass substrate, multiple reflection of ultraviolet between the upper and lower faces of the glass substrate is prevented at the time of the exposing process of the photo sensitive material. Further, through forming the film thickness of the light shielding film constituted by one of the above metals more than 3µm, the heat conductivity of the glass substrate is enhanced. JP-A-9-321184 discloses a connection substrate for connecting a semiconductor chip having a high wiring density with a printed wire substrate having a low wiring density and manufacturing method thereof. The connection substrate is constituted by a photosensitive glass substrate and on the upper face thereof one layer wiring is formed to which a bump for the chip is connected. Further, on the lower face of the substrate a plurality of bumps are formed, which are connected to electrodes on the printed wire substrate. The wirings on the upper face of the substrate and the bump on the lower face are electrically connected through holes penetrating between the upper and lower faces of the substrate. These penetrating holes are formed through a photolithography and the insides thereof conductors are buried through plating. JP-A-2000-124358 discloses a technology of a high frequency integrated circuit mounting an active element in which an MIM type capacitor, a spiral inductor, a thin film resistor and metal wirings for connecting these are arranged on a silicon substrate and further, a flip chip is mounted thereon. Further, the claims thereof cover the use of a glass substrate, although the details thereof and the advantages thereof are not disclosed. JP-A-10-284694 discloses a technology of constituting an electronic circuit on a poly crystal silicon substrate having a resistivity of more than 200 Q cm. As the wiring substrate for mounting an electronic parts, one in which Cu wirings are formed on a resin substrate constituted such as epoxy resin containing glass fibers (glass epoxy) and polyimide resin or one in which W wirings are formed on a ceramics substrate such as AlN and SiC are broadly used. However the warp and size variation of the wiring materials such as the resin and the ceramics are large in comparison with those of silicon substrate which is used in the manufacture of the semiconductor integrated circuits and the formation of microscopic wirings and through holes of the order of µm by using a photolithography is impossible, therefore, it was difficult to mount the electronic parts in high density. An electronic circuit component comprising an insulator substrate, a plurality of electrodes having different areas provided on the insulator substrate, one or more elements selected from a capacitor element of dielectric material sandwiched between the electrodes, an inductor element and resistor element, a metal wiring connecting the elements, a metal terminal part of a part of the metal wiring and an organic insulator material covering the elements and the circumference of the metal wiring portion excluding the metal terminal portion. An electronic circuit component comprising an insulator substrate, a plurality of electrodes provided on the insulator substrate, one or more elements selected from a capacitor element of dielectric material sandwiched between the electrodes, an inductor element and resistor element, a connecting portion provide at portions other than end portions of the electrodes, a metal wiring connecting the elements and the connecting portion, a metal terminal part of a part of the metal wiring and an organic insulator material covering the elements and the circumference of the metal wiring portion excluding the metal terminal portion. An electronic circuit component comprising an insulator substrate, a plurality of electrodes provided on the insulator substrate, one or more elements selected from a capacitor element of dielectric material sandwiched between the electrodes, an inductor element and resistor element, a metal wiring connecting the elements, a metal terminal part of a part of the metal wiring and being arranged in a grid shape and an organic insulator material covering the elements and the circumference of the metal wiring portion excluding the metal terminal portion. An electronic circuit component comprising an insulator substrate, a plurality of electrodes provided on the insulator substrate, one or more elements selected from a capacitor element of dielectric material sandwiched between the electrodes, an inductor element and resistor element, a metal wiring connecting the elements, a metal terminal part of a part of the metal wiring and a plurality of organic insulator material s covering the elements and the circumference of the metal wiring portion excluding the metal terminal portion. An electronic circuit component according to any one of claims 1 through 4, wherein the distances between the capacitance element constituted by the plurality of the electrodes and the dielectric material sandwiched therebetween, the inductor element and the resistor element and the insulator substrate are differentiated. An electronic circuit component according to any one of claims 1 through 5, wherein the insulator substrate is a glass substrate. An electronic circuit component according to any one of claims 1 through 6, wherein the organic insulator material is a photosensitive organic insulator material. An electronic circuit component according to any one of claims 1 through 6, wherein the organic insulator material is a low dielectric loss tangent resin composition which includes a bridging component having a plurality of styrene groups as expressed by the following general chemical formula and contains polymers having average molecular weight of more than 5000,  (Wherein, R represents a hydrocarbon skeleton, which may include a substituent, R1 represents one of hydrogen, methyl and ethyl, m represents 1 from 4 and n represents an integer more than 1). An electronic circuit component according to any one of claims 1 through 6, wherein the organic insulator material is polyimide. An electronic circuit component according to any one of claims 1 through 6, wherein the organic insulator material is BCB (Benzo Cyclo Butene). An electronic circuit component according to any one of claims 1 through 10, wherein the dielectric material is an organic insulator material or an oxide of any one of Ta, Mg and Sr. An electronic circuit component comprising an insulator substrate at predetermined position of which through holes are provided, a plurality of electrodes having different areas provided on both faces of the main face and the sub-main face or one of the faces of the insulator substrate, one or more elements selected from a capacitor element of dielectric material sandwiched between the electrodes, an inductor element and resistor element, a metal wiring connecting the elements, a conductor portions formed inside the through holes for electrically connecting the metal wiring, a metal terminal part of a part of the metal wiring and an organic insulator material covering the elements and the circumference of the metal wiring portion excluding the metal terminal portion. An electronic circuit component comprising an insulator substrate at predetermined position of which through holes are provided, a plurality of electrodes having different areas provided on both faces of the main face and the sub-main face or one of the faces of the insulator substrate, one or more elements selected from a capacitor element of dielectric material sandwiched between the electrodes, an inductor element and resistor element, connecting portions provided at portions other than end portions of the electrodes, a metal wiring connecting the elements and the connecting portions, a conductor portions formed inside the through holes for electrically connecting the metal wiring, a metal terminal part of a part of the metal wiring and an organic insulator material covering the elements and the circumference of the metal wiring portion excluding the metal terminal portion. An electronic circuit component comprising an insulator substrate at predetermined position of which through holes are provided, a plurality of electrodes having different areas provided on both faces of the main face and the sub-main face or one of the faces of the insulator substrate, one or more elements selected from a capacitor element of dielectric material sandwiched between the electrodes, an inductor element and resistor element, a metal wiring connecting the elements, a conductor portions formed inside the through holes for electrically connecting the metal wiring, a metal terminal part of a part of the metal wiring and being arranged in a grid shape and an organic insulator material covering the elements and the circumference of the metal wiring portion excluding the metal terminal portion. An electronic circuit component comprising an insulator substrate at predetermined position of which through holes are provided, a plurality of electrodes provided on both faces of the main face and the sub-main face or one of the faces of the insulator substrate, one or more elements selected from a capacitor element of dielectric material sandwiched between the electrodes, an inductor element and resistor element, a metal wiring connecting the elements, a conductor portions formed inside the through holes for electrically connecting the metal wiring, a metal terminal part of a part of the metal wiring and a plurality of organic insulator materials covering the elements and the circumference of the metal wiring portion excluding the metal terminal portion. An electronic circuit component comprising an insulator substrate at predetermined position of which through holes are provided, a plurality of electrodes provided on both faces of the main face and the sub-main face or one of the faces of the insulator substrate, one or more elements selected from a capacitor element of dielectric material sandwiched between the electrodes, an inductor element and resistor element, a metal wiring connecting the elements, a conductor portions formed inside the through holes for electrically connecting the metal wiring, a metal terminal part of a part of the metal wiring, a first organic insulator material covering the elements provided on the main face of the insulator substrate and the circumference of the metal wiring portion excluding the metal terminal portion and a second organic insulator material covering the elements provided on the sub-main of the insulator substrate and the circumference of the metal wiring portion excluding the metal terminal portion. An electronic circuit component comprising an insulator substrate at predetermined position of which through holes are provided, a plurality of electrodes provided on both faces of the main face and the sub-main face or one of the faces of the insulator substrate, one or more elements selected from a capacitor element of dielectric material sandwiched between the electrodes, an inductor element and resistor element, a metal wiring connecting the elements, a conductor portions formed inside the through holes for electrically connecting the metal wiring, a metal terminal part of a part of the metal wiring and being provided on the other face where the inductor element is provided and an organic insulator material covering the elements and the circumference of the metal wiring portion excluding the metal terminal portion. An electronic circuit component comprising an insulator substrate at predetermined position of which through holes are provided, a plurality of electrodes provided on both faces of the main face and the sub-main face or one of the faces of the insulator substrate, one or more elements selected from a capacitor element of dielectric material sandwiched between the electrodes, an inductor element and resistor element, a metal wiring connecting the elements, a conductor portions constituted of a conductive material, core forming material and glass and formed inside the through holes for electrically connecting the metal wiring, a metal terminal part of a part of the metal wiring and an organic insulator material covering the elements and the circumference of the metal wiring portion excluding the metal terminal portion. An electronic circuit component according to any one of claims 12 through 18, wherein the distances between the capacitance element constituted by the plurality of the electrodes and the dielectric material sandwiched therebetween, the inductor element and the resistor element and the insulator substrate are differentiated. An electronic circuit component according to any one of claims 12 through 19, wherein the insulator substrate is a glass substrate. An electronic circuit component according to any one of claims 12 through 20, wherein the organic insulator material is a photosensitive organic insulator material. An electronic circuit component according to any one of claims 12 through 20, wherein the organic insulator material is a low dielectric loss tangent resin composition which includes a bridging component having a plurality of styrene groups as expressed by the following general chemical formula and contains polymers having average molecular weight of more than 5000,  (Wherein, R represents a hydrocarbon skeleton, which may include a substituent, R1 represents one of hydrogen, methyl and ethyl, m represents 1 from 4 and n represents an integer more than 1). An electronic circuit component according to any one of claims 12 through 20, wherein the organic insulator material is polyimide. An electronic circuit component according to any one of claims 12 through 20, wherein the organic insulator material is BCB (Benzo Cyclo Butene). An electronic circuit component according to any one of claims 12 through 20, wherein the dielectric material is an organic insulator material or an oxide of any one of Ta, Mg and Sr. <seperator>EP-1310859-A2<id_sep>classG06class sectionGsection subgroupG06F1slash16subgroup subclassG06Fsubclass Display system There is described a display system wherein the system provides a user with a plurality of displays for view information from a computer including at least one display which is body-supported, such as a head-mounted display. The system reduces the information, which normally would be displayed in a head-mounted display, thus reducing a user's dependence on the head-mounted display.  The present invention relates to display systems and the like. Preferably, at least one display is body-worn and connected to a mobile computer. Portable and body-worn computers are becoming increasingly popular. It is known to use wearable or user-supported computers that can be operated in a hands-free manner; an example is the MOBILE ASSISTANT by Xybernaut Corporation. An important feature of these computers is that they permit the user to have freedom to use his or her hands for repairing or for other manual functions while still able to use a fully functional computer. As above noted, one of the most well known of these user supported computers is the MOBILE ASSISTANT computer line available from Xybernaut Corporation of Fairfax, VA, USA. MOBILE ASSISTANT is a registered trademark of Xybernaut Corporation. U.S. patents Nos. 5,305,244 and 5,844,824 describe the details and components used in said user-supported computers. U.S. 5,844,824 describes and claims several hands-free activation means and other significant improvements or modifications in user supported computers. Both U.S. patents Nos. 5,305,244 and 5,844,824 are owned by the assignee of the present application and both describe in one embodiment a rigid computer that has all components in a single housing. The disclosure of U.S. patents Nos. 5,305,244 and 5,844,824 are incorporated by reference in the present disclosure. Other patents describing wearable computers are U.S. patents Nos. 5,285,398 and 5,491,651. Both of these patents disclose a non-rigid or a belt worn computer containing the elements or components of a computer in several different housings or pockets. In U.S. patent No. 5,285,398 the plurality of computing elements are located in separate pockets on the belt and a flexible signal relaying means connects all of the elements for computing. A protective covering is used for enclosing said computer elements. In U.S. patent No. 5,491,651 a similar belt computer is described and claimed in which the signal relaying means, the length of which between any two computing elements is greater than the length of the wearable member between any two computing elements. In both U.S. patents Nos. 5,285,398 and 5,491,651 the flexible wearable computer is in the form of a belt comprising around its periphery sequentially positioned computer elements. The popularity of wearable computers has also increased the use of head-mounted displays (HMDs). However, concern has been expressed recently about the possible health problems, which may arise from the use of these displays. Specifically, reports suggest that the head-mounted display may cause or contribute to eye disorders such as myopia and create the feeling of motion sickness or nausea during prolonged use. For example, in an article entitled "Effects on Visual Functions Following Several Hours' Usage of A Head Mounted Display" published in Journal of Japanese Ophthalmological Society, Naoto et al investigated the effects of viewing video movies with a head-mounted display for 4 to 6 hours on visual functions such as refraction, visual acuity, and accommodation-vergence system. Results of the study indicate that significant transient myopia was found following 4 hours' viewing in some individuals and others suffered from hyperopia. A display system for displaying information from a computer, said system comprising:  The display system according to claim 1, characterized in that at least one of said first and second computer displays are user supported displays selected from the group consisting of head-mounted displays, flat panel displays, neck-hung displays, wrist-mounted displays and mixtures thereof. The display system according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that one of said first and second displays is a non-user supported display and one is a user supported display. The display system according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that said computer is a user-supported computer, a mobile computer or a vehicle-mounted computer. The display system according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that communication means are in electrical contact with said computer. A display system for displaying information from a user-supported computer, said display system comprising:  A display system for displaying information from a computer, the display system comprising:  A display system for displaying information from a computer, the display system comprising:  The display system according to claim 8, characterized in that said computer is a user-supported computer and comprises communication means and activation means selected from the group consisting of audio activation, electroencephalography activation means, eye-tracking activation means and mixtures thereof. The display system according to claim 8 or 9, characterized in that said body-worn display is a wrist-worn display. <seperator>EP-1482429-A2<id_sep>subgroupG06F17slash30subgroup sectionGsection subclassG06Fsubclass classG06class subgroupG06F17slash22subgroup System and method of query transformation A system for transforming client/server aggregates is provided. The system comprises a client/server analysis component for analyzing one or more queries that are not supported by a target database system, and a client/server transformation component for transforming the one or more queries into semantically equivalent queries that are supported by the target database system.  The invention relates generally to data access middleware, and in particular to a system and method of query transformation. A typical data access environment has a multi-tier architecture. For description purposes, it can be separated into three distinct tiers: The web server contains a firewall and one or more gateways. All web communication is performed through a gateway. A gateway is responsible for passing on requests to the application server, in tier 2, for execution. The applications tier contains one or more application servers. The application server runs requests, such as reports and queries that are forwarded by a gateway running on the web server. Typically, one of the components of the applications tier is a query engine, which is data access middleware that provides universal data access to a variety of heterogeneous database systems. The query engine formulates queries (typically SQL) and passes them on to the data tier, through a native database API (such as ODBC) for execution. The data tier contains database management systems (DBMS), which manage raw data stored in a database. Examples of such systems include Oracle, DB2, and Microsoft SQL Server. Although a multi-tier architecture can be configured in several different ways, a typical configuration places each tier on a separate computer (server). A database server is typically a "high end" server, and thus can process queries at a relatively fast speed. An application server cannot generally process queries as quickly as a database server. In order to solve many business questions, a query engine may generate SQL queries that utilize the SQL/OLAP technology introduced in the SQL:1999 standard. However, many database systems do not support this technology. Thus, the SQL queries would have to be performed by the query engine on the application server that is generally slower than the database server. It is desirable to have as much processing performed on the database server as possible. There is a need to prevent or reduce the amount of local (application server) processing required to process a query. In the past, the application would be responsible for generating SQL that contained a standard GROUP BY query. Quite often, generating this type of SQL is more difficult since it is more complex. One way of overcoming this problem is for the query engine to generate a GROUP BY query to compute aggregates at the lowest level of granularity, and then compute the remaining aggregates based on these values. This approach reduces the amount of processing time required on the application server. It is an object of the present invention to provide a method of Client/Server Aggregate query transformation in a database system that does not support SQL:1999 standard. In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a system for transforming client/server aggregates. The system comprises a client/server analysis component for analyzing one or more queries that are not supported by a target database system, and a client/server transformation component for transforming the one or more queries into semantically equivalent queries that are supported by the target database system. A system for transforming client/server aggregates, the system comprising:  A method of client/server aggregate transformation, the method comprising the steps of:  The method as claimed in claim 2, further comprising the steps of:  The method as claimed in claim 3, wherein the step of determining if a transformation should be performed comprises the steps of:  The method as claimed in claim 3, wherein the step of applying a client/server transformation comprises the step of replacing AVG( C0) OVER() with an expression of the form SUM( SUM( C0)) OVER() / SUM( COUNT( C0)) OVER() and moving the standard (nested) aggregates into the inner select list. The method as claimed in claim 3, wherein the step of applying a client/server transformation comprises the step of replacing AVG( C0) OVER( PARTITION BY C1, C2, ..., Ck) with an expression of the form SUM( SUM( C0)) OVER( PARTITION BY C1, C2, ..., Ck) / SUM(COUNT(C0)) OVER( PARTITION BY C1, C2, ..., Ck) and moving the standard (nested) aggregates into the inner select list. A method of client/server aggregate transformation, the method comprising the steps of:  A computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave and representing sequences of instructions which, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform a method of client/server aggregate transformation, the method comprising the steps of:  A computer-readable medium having computer readable code embodied therein for use in the execution in a computer of a method of client/server aggregate transformation, the method comprising the steps of:  A computer program product for use in the execution in a computer of a query transformation system for transforming client/server aggregates, the computer program product comprising:  <seperator>EP-1378842-A2<id_sep>sectionGsection subclassG06Fsubclass classG06class subclassG06Qsubclass subgroupG06F15slash02subgroup groupG06Q10slash00group Method and system for scheduling appointment according to real-time information A method for augmenting an event-based appointment in an electronic scheduler (100) in real-time includes retrieving an appointment data associated with an appointment (604). The appointment data includes an event trigger (408) and one or more event actions (410) depending on the event trigger (408). The method also includes acquiring event-related information based on the event trigger (606), where the event-related information is capable of determining if the event trigger is satisfied. The method further includes determining if the acquired event-related information satisfies the event trigger (608); and in response to determining that the event trigger is satisfied, performing the one or more event actions (610). A portable electronic scheduler (100) suitable to accompany a user of the portable electronic scheduler includes a storage device (116) and a module (106) coupled to the storage device (116). The storage device (116) is configured to store event information (400), and the storage device (116) stores data corresponding to an event, wherein the data includes an event trigger (408) and one or more event actions (410) depending on the event trigger (408). The module (106) is operable to obtain event-related information based on the event trigger (408), operable to determine if the event trigger (408) is satisfied, and operable to initiate the performance of the one or more event actions (410) in response to determining that the event trigger (408) is satisfied.  Field The present invention relates generally to the field of appointment and scheduling systems and, more particularly, to the use of real-time information to dynamically augment appointment and schedule information. Description of the Related Art Electronic organizers, such as personal digital assistants (PDAs), are becoming more and more common in today's society. The PDA is essentially a portable computer, typically handheld, that has special capabilities. People use an electronic organizer to store and maintain scheduling information, to-do lists, address and telephone lists, and the like. One application provided with many electronic organizers is a scheduler or appointment application (e.g., an electronic daily planner). The scheduler application enables a user to store and maintain a daily schedule based on time. The scheduler application then reminds or alerts the user of his or her scheduled appointments. For example, a person can create an entry for a scheduled staff meeting at three o'clock next Monday. The scheduler application then reminds the person of the scheduled staff meeting, for example, starting from one hour prior to the meeting time. The typical electronic organizer sounds a short alarm (e.g., beeping noise) as a reminder and the organizer continues to periodically trigger the reminder until the person turns off the reminder. A drawback with conventional electronic organizers is that it only permits its user to make schedule entries that are based on time. In contrast, more and more activities are based on or associated with places or events. Conventional electronic organizers do not provide its user the ability to create an entry that is based on an event, such as "the next time I see Bob," "the next time I'm at the grocery store," and the like. Presently, a person cannot use conventional electronic schedulers to be reminded of something the next time the person is at a certain place or when an event occurs. Another disadvantage with many conventional electronic organizers is that it keeps on triggering the reminder until the user deactivates the reminder. For example, even if the person is at the scheduled staff meeting, the electronic organizer still triggers the reminder. Thus, the user of the electronic organizer is inconvenienced with having to deactivate the reminder for the staff meeting, sometimes while the meeting is in progress. Alternatively, the person can deactivate the reminder function in the electronic organizer. But, this is undesirable because the person may forget about the scheduled event and will not be reminded by the electronic organizer. The present invention provides an apparatus and corresponding methods that incorporate real-time information in providing event-based appointment scheduling functions. The event-based appointments may or may not include a time/date parameter. For example, the event-based appointments can use time as an appointment reminder trigger (e.g., an appointment at two o'clock) or can use some other "event" than time/date as the appointment reminder trigger (e.g., "I want to go skiing the next good powder day"). The apparatus includes components and program logic to maintain information regarding one or more such event-based appointments. The apparatus also includes components and program logic to acquire and/or obtain real-time information/data and adapt the real-time information/data to augment one or more event-based appointments. The real-time information may include information such as, by way of example, geographical location, proximity location (e.g., proximity to other devices), traffic conditions, weather conditions, time, and the like. The apparatus can then use the acquired real-time information or event to augment the event-based appointments. A method for augmenting an event-based appointment in an electronic scheduler (100) in real-time, the method comprising: retrieving an appointment data associated with an appointment(604),the appointment data comprising an event trigger (408) and one or more event actions (410) depending an the event trigger (408); acquiring event-related information based an the event trigger (606), the event-related information capable of determining if the event trigger is satisfied; determining if the acquired event-related information satisfies the event trigger (608); and in response to determining that the event trigger is satisfied, performing the one or more event actions (610). The method of Claim 1, wherein the retrieving an appointment (604), acquiring an event-related information (606), determining if the acquired event-related information satisfies the event trigger (608), and performing the one or more event actions (610) steps are periodically executed. The method of Claim 2, wherein the retrieving (604), acquiring (606), determining (608), and performing (610) steps are periodically executed starting from a predetermined time before an appointment time associated with the event-based appoinhnent. The method of Claim 1 further comprising:  A method for transmitting a notification to one or more meeting attendees, the method comprising:  A portable electronic scheduler (100) suitable to accompany a user ofthe portable electronic scheduler, the portable electronic scheduler comprising: a storage device (116) configured to store event information (400), the storage device (116) storing data cosesponding to an event, wherein the data comprises an event trigger (408) and one or more event actions (410) depending an the event trigger (408); and a module (106) coupled to the storage device (116), the module (106) operable to obtain event-related information based an the event trigger (408), the module (106) operable to determine if the event trigger (408) is satisfied, the module (106) operable to initiate the performance of the one or more event aciions (410) in response to detennining that the event trigger (408) is satisfied. The portable electronic scheduler (100) of Claim 6, wherein the event trigger (408) comprises an event time and event location. The portable electronic scheduler (100) of Claim 6, wherein the one or more event aciions (410) comprises generating a reminder an the portable electronic scheduler (100). The portable electronic scheduler (100) of Claim 6, wherein the one or more event actions (410) comprises executing a program an the portable electronic scheduler (100). The portable electronic scheduler (100) of Claim 6, wherein the one or more event actions (410) comprises transmitting a notification. <seperator>EP-1559741-A1<id_sep>groupB29C61slash00group subgroupC08L77slash06subgroup groupB29C55slash00group sectionBsection subgroupB29C61slash06subgroup subgroupC08L77slash02subgroup subgroupC08J5slash18subgroup subclassC08Jsubclass sectionCsection subclassC08Lsubclass groupC08L77slash00group classB29class subclassB29Csubclass classC08class Aliphatic polyamide resin-based heat-shrinkable film The present invention relates to an aliphatic polyamide resin-based heat-shrinkable film comprising an aliphatic polyamide resin(s) and having a melting point of not lower than 150°C,     the amounts of the structural units of all the aliphatic polyamide resins constituting the film being: (A) 50 to 95 parts by weight of polyamide 6 unit, (B) 5 to 50 parts by weight of polyamide 69 unit, and (C) 0 to 20 parts by weight of polyamide 66 unit, based on the total of the amounts of the structural units being 100 parts by weight. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to an aliphatic polyamide resin-based heat-shrinkable film. More particularly, it relates to an aliphatic polyamide resin-based heat-shrinkable film which is particularly useful for shrink packaging of processed food products such as ham and sausage, machine and electronic parts, and miscellaneous goods for daily use. Heat-shrinkable film is a prestretched film which is shrunk when dipped in hot water. This film, when shrunk, is attached tightly to the material contained therein to purge air in the inside of the film package, so that it is popularly used as a packaging film for preservation foods. A higher shrinkability of the film ensures a tighter attachment of the film to the contained material and a greater amount of air purged, so that a film with high shrinkability is desired. The film is also required to be heat resistant since some materials contained, such as livestock products, are subjected to a long-time hot water or steam treatment at a temperature of over 100°C for sterilization. Polyamide films, which excel in gas barrier properties and heat resistance, are suited for use as a film for food preservation, and the films obtained by biaxially stretching polyamide 6 homopolymers or polyamide 6/66 copolymers have been known and used as this type of film. However, to this type of film, further improvement of shrinkability of the films has been requested, and studies have been pursued on the methods for improving shrinkability by using polyamide copolymers having xylenediamines or other aromatic compounds such as terephthalic acid and isophthalic acid as a copolymer component or by mixing polyamides having such aromatic compounds as one of the main components (See Japanese Patent Application Laid-Open (KOKAI) Nos. 51-84847, 62-41261, 62-131060, 63-268744, 2-107428 and 4-342735). However, any of the proposed films was subject to the problem of increased formation of pinholes and resultant deterioration of gas barrier performance because of high rigidity and poor flexibility. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION The object of the present invention is to provide an aliphatic polyamide resin-based heat-shrinkable film which has flexibility and excels in shrinkability in hot water. As a result of the present inventors' earnest study to attain the above object, it has been found that the above object can be attained by forming a film from an aliphatic polyamide resin(s) of which the specific amide resin component falls within a specific range of composition, and stretching and heat setting the film to obtain a film having a specific melting point. The present invention has been attained on the basis of the above finding. In an aspect of the present invention, there is provided an aliphatic polyamide resin-based heat-shrinkable film comprising an aliphatic polyamide resin(s) and having a melting point of not lower than 150°C, the amounts of the structural units of all the aliphatic polyamide resins constituting the film being: (A) 50 to 95 parts by weight of polyamide 6 unit, (B) 5 to 50 parts by weight of polyamide 69 unit, and (C) 0 to 20 parts by weight of polyamide 66 unit, based on the total of the amounts of the structural units being 100 parts by weight. An aliphatic polyamide resin-based heat-shrinkable film comprising an aliphatic polyamide resin(s) and having a melting point of not lower than 150°C,    the amounts of the structural units of all the aliphatic polyamide resins constituting the film being: (A) 50 to 95 parts by weight of polyamide 6 unit, (B) 5 to 50 parts by weight of polyamide 69 unit, and (C) 0 to 20 parts by weight of polyamide 66 unit, based on the total of the amounts of the structural units being 100 parts by weight. The aliphatic polyamide resin-based heat-shrinkable film according to claim 1, wherein the shrinkage percentage of the film when treated in 80°C hot water is not less than 32% in average of the longitudinal and transverse shrinkage percentages. The aliphatic polyamide resin-based heat-shrinkable film according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the polyamide resin is a mixture of polyamide 6/66 copolymer resin and polyamide 6/69 copolymer resin. The aliphatic polyamide resin-based heat-shrinkable film according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the polyamide resin is a mixture of polyamide 6 resin and polyamide 6/69 copolymer resin. <seperator>EP-1254780-A2<id_sep>subgroupB41M5slash30subgroup subgroupB41M5slash44subgroup subclassG03Fsubclass sectionBsection subgroupB41M5slash42subgroup subgroupG03F7slash004subgroup sectionGsection classG03class subgroupB41M5slash337subgroup subclassB41Msubclass subgroupG03F7slash26subgroup classB41class subgroupB41M5slash40subgroup subgroupB41M5slash28subgroup Recording material The present invention provides a recording material comprising a support, a recording layer provided on the support, and at least one protective layer provided on the recording layer, wherein, the recording layer contains a coloring component A encapsulated in heat-responsive microcapsules, and a substantially colorless compound B, which is outside the heat-responsive microcapsules and has a coloring site that colors when reacted with the coloring component A, and wherein, at least one of the protective layer or a layer adjacent thereto comprises a layer containing titanium oxide. The present invention relates to a recording material that can record with high sensitivity to light in the ultraviolet, visible and infrared regions and can be applied to a wide range of fields, such as inks, color filters, holograms, proofs, sealants, adhesives, surface printing, resin relief printing and photoresists, and to an image forming method that the recording material. Dry type image recording methods that do not use a liquid developer and do not cause waste have been variously studied. Among these recording methods, a method using a composition that is cured with light is attracting attention. This method is characterized in that a photocurable composition, which is contained in the recording material, is cured by exposure to form a latent image, and a component, which has a coloring or decoloring reaction when heated, is moved to form a color image. Specifically, light exposes a recording material through an image copy, and a latent image is formed by curing the exposed part. Thereafter, a visual image can be formed by heating the recording material, and moving, in the uncured (unexposed) part, the coloring or decoloring component, which is inside the recording material. According to the method, a completely dry system that causes no waste can be realized. The method is characteristic in recording a monochrome image and is particularly useful for recording a color image. The inventors have proposed in JP-A No. 3-87827 and No. 4-211252 recording materials that suppress coloration in a non-image part and provide a high image density. In the former recording material, one of two components of a two-component type photosensitive and heat-sensitive coloration recording material is encapsulated in microcapsules, and the other is used as a curable compound of a photo-curable composition, or the other is contained outside the microcapsules with the photo-curable composition. The later recording material has a coated layer containing a photo-curable composition, which contains microcapsules encapsulating an electron-donor colorless colorant, and outside the microcapsules, an electron-acceptor compound, a polymerizable vinyl monomer and a photopolymerization initiator. There is a demand for these recording materials to provide high glossiness to impart sophisticated feeling to an image. Furthermore, improvements in light fastness of the image are also desired in order to impart a value to the image such that the image can be appreciated for a long period of time. The present invention is to solve the problems in the conventional art and to attain the following objects. One of the objects of the invention is to provide a recording material providing high glossiness and high light fastness and a process for forming an image using the recording material. The objects of the present invention can be attained by the following means. That is, the invention relates to, as one aspect, a recording material comprising: In one embodiment of the present invention, the protective layer includes at least two layers, and an outermost layer of the protective layer or a layer adjacent to the outermost layer is the layer containing titanium oxide. In another embodiment of the present invention, the recording layer further contains a photopolymerizable composition. A recording material comprising:  The recording layer according to claim 1, wherein the protective layer includes at least two layers, and an outermost layer of the protective layer or a layer adjacent to the outermost layer is the layer containing titanium oxide. The recording layer according to any of claims 1 and 2, wherein the recording layer further contains a photopolymerizable composition. The recording layer according to any of claims 1 to 3, wherein the compound B includes the coloring site and a polymerizable group in one molecule. The recording layer according to any of claims 1 to 4, wherein the recording layer further contains a substantially colorless compound C, which has a site that suppresses a reaction between the coloring component A and the compound B and a polymerizable group in one molecule. The recording layer according to any of claims 1 to 5, wherein titanium oxide contained in the layer containing titanium oxide has a particle diameter of no more than 0.2 µm. The recording layer according to any of claims 1 to 6, wherein an amount of titanium oxide contained in the layer containing titanium oxide is from 5 to 90% by weight relative to the layer containing titanium oxide. The recording layer according to any of claims 1 to 7, wherein the layer containing titanium oxide comprises a binder formed in a layer having titanium oxide dispersed on a surface thereof, which binder comprises polyvinyl alcohol. <seperator>EP-1433564-A1<id_sep>subgroupB23K35slash02subgroup subgroupC22C11slash06subgroup sectionBsection subgroupB23K1slash14subgroup subgroupB23K35slash30subgroup subclassC22Csubclass classC22class groupC22C11slash00group sectionCsection subgroupB23K35slash14subgroup subclassB23Ksubclass classB23class groupB23K35slash00group subgroupB23K35slash26subgroup groupC22C12slash00group groupC22C28slash00group System and method for hermetic seal formation System and method for formation of a hermetic seal (1106, 1107) with an significantly greater melting temperature than the melting temperature of the solder (1101) employed. The hermetic seal (1106, 1107) is formed from a solder (1101) with a low melting point and a metal (1102, 1105) having a predetermined thickness that corresponds to the solder (1101). The solder (1101) and metal (1102, 1105) combination undergoes reflow for a period of time relative to the solder (1101) thickness. The resultant seal (1106, 1107) has a melting point at a temperature significantly greater than the melting temperature of the solder (1101).  The present invention relates in general to seal formation, and in particular to a system and method for hermetic seal formation. Hermetic seals usually are required for optoelectronic devices to make the device impervious to external influences, such as moisture. Low melting solders are desirable for sealing because the low melting temperatures will reduce the thermal induced warpage in these devices. Typical examples of low-melting solders used to form hermetic seals include indium (T The hermetic seal is produced when the base metal, Au or Cu for example, dissolves into a molten metal, such as Sn or In and their alloys, and the active constituent in the solder combines with the base metal to form an intermetallic compound. The relative amount of base metal that goes into the solution is related to its solubility in the solder, and the intermetallic compound that forms depends on the solubility of the active element in the base metal. This process depends on the length of time that the intermetallic phase temperature remains above the liquidus temperature of the solder. It is known that Au and Cu, when compared with other noble metals such as Ag, Pt, and Pd, quickly dissolve into molten Sn, In, and their alloys, and rapidly react and form intermetallic compounds with Sn, In, and their alloys. When a molten layer of Sn or In is sandwiched between layers of Au or Cu, the whole layer of molten metal can be consumed by formation of a high melting intermetallic compound or a compound with boundary Au or Cu layers during the usual soldering process. When the molten layer of an Sn or In eutectic alloy is sandwiched between Au or Cu layers, then Au or Cu usually reacts with one element in the Sn or In alloy. This causes the Sn or In alloy to move away from its eutectic composition, and this leads to a higher melting temperature for the seal. In the past, the Au or Cu used to make these seals has not been very thick, usually about 0.1 µm, and the melting temperature of the resulting seal has not been high enough to make subsequent step soldering, which is frequently used in manufacturing situations, easy to perform. Furthermore, there are problems with creep resistance, dimensional stability, and optical performance of the seal when placed in the optoelectronic device. Although the temperatures of low-melting solders previously mentioned are desirable for forming hermetic seals, there is a need to increase the melting temperatures of the hermetic seals that are formed without sacrificing the advantages that these low-melting solders provide. It is desirable to make a hermetic seal at a relatively low temperature in order to minimize thermal induced warpage. In addition, if the seal is high melting when it is made, then it can be used to engage in subsequent step soldering which is sometimes required in manufacturing operations. By having an increased melting temperature, joint creep resistance may be improved. Also, dimensional stability and optical performance may be improved. A hermetic seal comprising:  The hermetic seal of claim 1 wherein the metal (1102, 1105) is Au. The hermetic seal of claim 1 or 2 wherein a thickness of the metal (1102, 1105) is related to a thickness of the solder (1101). The hermetic seal of one of claims 1 to 3 wherein the low-melting solder (103) is 52In-48Sn. The hermetic seal of one of claims 1 to 3, where the low-melting solder (303) is 58Bi-42Sn. The hermetic seal of one of claims 1 to 3 wherein the low-melting solder (503) is 63Pb-37Sn. The hermetic seal of one of claims 1 to 3 wherein the low-melting solder (703) is pure indium. The hermetic seal of claim 7 wherein the reflow time varies from 3-30 minutes. A method to form a hermetic seal (704) comprising:  A system for forming a hermetic seal (704) comprising:  <seperator>EP-1569317-A2<id_sep>subgroupH01M10slash42subgroup sectionHsection sectionBsection subclassH01Msubclass classB25class subgroupH02J7slash10subgroup subclassB25Fsubclass classH01class subgroupH01M10slash44subgroup classH02class subclassH02Jsubclass groupH02J7slash00group groupB25F5slash00group subgroupH02J7slash04subgroup Charging control system A charging control system. The system has a function as a switch controller which includes a charge mode judging executor 66, a charging time monitoring executor 68 and a switch controlling executor 72. The executor 66 judges whether present control is a constant current control or a constant voltage control. The executor 68 monitors whether or not a constant current charging time exceeds a threshold time by utilizing a judging result of the executor 66. The executor 72 turns a switch 54 off when a monitoring result of the executor 68 indicates that the constant current charging time exceeds the threshold time.  The invention relates a charging control system with a function for preventing overcharge of a rechargeable battery such as a lithium ion battery, a nickel hydrogen battery or the like, and a motor-driven tool set equipped with the system. A prior art device described Japanese Patent Publication No. 10-066277 comprises a rechargeable battery, a charging current and voltage control circuit which charges the battery by a constant current control and a constant voltage control, and a safety circuit located in a battery pack. The safety circuit restrains the device from charging the battery when voltage detected by itself reaches a predetermined first voltage. The device also includes a charging voltage detection circuit and a battery voltage detection circuit. And the device is configured to restrain itself from charging the battery when voltage detected by the each detection circuit exceeds a predetermined second voltage higher than the first voltage. According to the device, overcharge of the battery can be preferably avoided. However, in the construction that prevents the overcharge only by detecting the charging or battery voltage, there is a problem that the construction becomes complicated since a plural of voltage detection circuit is required. An object of the present invention is to prevent overcharge of a rechargeable battery by simple construction. A charging control system of the present invention comprises a DC power source, a current detector, a voltage detector, a constant current controller, a constant voltage controller, a switch and a switch controller. The DC power source is configured to charge a rechargeable battery. The current detector is configured to detect current supplied to the battery by the source. The voltage detector is configured to detect voltage of the battery. The constant current controller is configured to control the source so as to regulate the current detected by the current detector to be equal to a predetermined reference current until the voltage detected by the voltage detector reaches a predetermined threshold voltage. The constant voltage controller is configured to control the source so as to regulate the voltage detected by the voltage detector to be equal to a predetermined reference voltage after the voltage detected by the voltage detector reaches the threshold voltage. The switch opens or closes an electrical connection between the source and the battery. The switch controller is configured to control the switch to open the above-mentioned electrical connection and keeps the connection open when a constant current charging time exceeds a predetermined threshold time. The constant current charging time is time while the source is controlled by the constant current controller. Thus, since the above-mentioned electrical connection is opened when the constant current charging time exceeds the threshold time, overcharge of the battery can be preferably prevented by simple construction Preferably, the switch controller is configured to control the switch to open the above-mentioned electrical connection and keeps the connection open when the voltage detected by the voltage detector exceeds the threshold voltage. Thereby, the overcharge can be more preferably prevented. The system may further comprise a temperature sensor which detects a temperature of the battery. And the switch controller is configured to control the switch to open the above-mentioned electrical connection and keeps the connection open when the temperature detected by the sensor exceeds a predetermined threshold temperature. Or the switch controller is configured to control the switch to open the electrical connection and keeps the connection open when a level-of-rise per unit time in the temperature detected by the sensor exceeds a predetermined threshold level per unit time. According to these configuration, the overcharge can be more preferably prevented. A charging control system, comprising:  The system of claim 1, wherein said switch controller controls said switch to open said electrical connection and keeps the connection open when the voltage detected by said voltage detector exceeds said threshold voltage. The system of claim 2, further comprising a temperature sensor which detects a temperature of said battery;    wherein said switch controller controls said switch to open said electrical connection and keeps the connection open when the temperature detected by said sensor exceeds a predetermined threshold temperature. The system of claim 3, wherein said switch controller controls said switch to open said electrical connection and keeps the connection open when a level-of-rise per unit time in the temperature detected by said sensor exceeds a predetermined threshold level per unit time. The system of claim 2, further comprising an amount counter which counts a total charging amount of said battery while said source is controlled by said constant current controller;    wherein said switch controller controls said switch to open said electrical connection and keeps the connection open when the amount counted by said counter exceeds a predetermined threshold amount. The system of claim 2, further comprising a charging unit and a battery pack, wherein:  A motor-driven tool set, comprising the system of claim 1; wherein said motor-driven tool set comprises:  <seperator>EP-1306793-A2<id_sep>classG06class sectionGsection groupG06F19slash00group subclassG06Fsubclass Remote health-monitoring system and method The present invention is directed to a remote health-monitoring system and method for the remote monitoring and supervision of outpatient vital signs using videoconferencing techniques. The system includes a management site, at least one medical professional site, a patient site, and a computer program operative to facilitate communications between the management site, the medical professional site, and the patient site to provide remote health monitoring. Video images and physiological data of a patient are digitally transmitted from a patient to a remote health care provider over a communications network, typically the Internet.  Field of the Invention The present invention relates generally to home health care systems, and more particularly to a remote health-monitoring system and method. Background of the Invention The concept ot home health care began in the 1850's when traveling health care professionals would provide in-home visits to patients in need of health care, yet unable to seek such care on their own. From the outset, however, the home health care provision suffered from the problem of "downtime" from having to travel to a patient's home to deliver the needed service. Today, this problem has been compounded by the shortage of health care professionals providing home health care and by rising medical costs. In fact today it is often difficult, if not impossible, for a health care professional to justify the costs of performing home health care visits. Paradoxically, while physicians now commonly monitor a patient's well being via health parameter measurements made during regularly scheduled office visits, the relentless pressure to reduce costs in the health care industry has required the more efficient use of a health care professional's services. During recent years, steadily increasing healthcare costs and outpatient populations have created a need to maximize time intervals between office visits. As a result, a number of vital health monitoring functions, traditionally performed by nurses and physicians, are now more often prescribed as a patient self-care responsibility. Large numbers of physicians now regularly prescribe home monitoring of such health parameters as blood pressure, heart rate, blood glucose level, clotting factor, body sounds produced by a stethoscope, EKG (electrocardiogram) signals, blood pressure, and artificial heart valve clicks. Home health care systems have been proposed that allow the transmission of a patient's physiological data from their home to a health care professional at a remote location over a communications network. One common method involves the use of videoconferencing in which two or more people are connected audio-visually over a telephone line or other suitable two-way communications channel. Teleconference visits can be used to check up on patient recovery progress, verify medication compliance, illustrate to a patient how to perform home care, and the like. The problem is that these systems are often inconvenient and/or inefficient. The home medical sensors are typically attached to the outside of a host unit, and either dangle there or are wrapped around the device with no integrated cable management offered. Medical sensors are typically wired to the circuit boards that read or drive them. Their wires are easily tangled, especially on monitors with multiple sensors. This tangled mess of cables is not user friendly, is obtrusive, and lacks discretion and privacy. As well, the sensors are generally fixed elements and therefore cannot be tailored to individual patients and their changing medical conditions. What is needed is a system where sensors can be quickly and easily interchanged or customized. In addition, in existing remote patient monitoring systems, the vital sign-monitoring component of the system is required to be hard-wired to the host. This limits where it can be positioned in relationship to the host. As well, existing systems are not battery powered, generally requiring them to be plugged into the wall to provide a power source. This is less desirable since it again limits the unit's portability. A remote health-monitoring system comprising:  The system according to claim 1, wherein the medical kit is in wireless communication with the gateway computer. The system according to claim 1, further including an enclosure for housing the second teleconference camera to protect and disguise the camera when not in use, the enclosure comprising:  The system according to claim 1, further including a portable client computer capable of connecting to the gateway to access both the medical kit and the management site to enable the conducting of in-person visits in a similar manner to that of remote visits. The system according to claim 1, wherein the medical kit is a peripheral to a controlling device. The system according to claim 1, wherein the medical kit is modular to provide interchangeable physiological data measuring devices. A remote health-monitoring method comprising the steps of:  A remote health-monitoring system comprising:  <seperator>EP-1351200-A2<id_sep>classF16class groupF16M13slash00group sectionFsection subclassF16Msubclass Device for slidably and rotatably supporting dispensing apparatus For dispensing apparatus (1) to which access is gained by authorized personnel from the front side of the apparatus (1), a support device comprising a stationary support body (4), the apparatus (1) being supported by said support body (4) via a slidable and rotatable platform (9) (Figure 4).  The present invention relates to a device for slidably and rotatably supporting dispensing apparatus in general, such as money changers, banknote changers, card, banknote and money dispensers, cigarette dispensers and dispensers for miscellaneous articles, in accordance with the introduction to the accompanying claim 1. Most dispensing apparatus have their front side, i.e. the user side, facing an environment accessible to the public. This environment can even be a public highway. The rest of the apparatus extends into a private environment to which only an authorized person responsible for the apparatus can have access. Access to the apparatus interior is obtained by operating on its front side, however safety reasons exclude such an operation being undertaken from that side of the environment accessible to the public, so that the authorized person is compelled to operate from the private environment side using a series of manoeuvres which are fatiguing (in view of the weight and size of the apparatus) and relatively lengthy, aimed at moving the front side of the apparatus into the private environment, to assume the opposite position to that in which it lies when in use. There are also other dispensing machines in which access can be obtained from the private environment, but this implies a more complicated construction not compatible with normal series production. The main object of the present invention is to provide a support device for dispensing apparatus which minimizes the personal fatigue involved in operating on the apparatus and which maximizes the speed of such operation. This and other objects which will be apparent from the ensuing detailed description are attained by a support device for dispensing apparatus, which is characterised by the technical aspects defined in the accompanying claims. The invention will be more apparent from the following detailed description, which is given by way of example with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which: With reference to the figures, the reference numeral 1 indicates overall a generic dispensing apparatus, for example a money changer. In known manner this comprises on its front side, intended for the public, slots, exit ports, indicator lamps, displays and so on. For maintenance and for withdrawing and reloading money, an authorized person has to operate on the front side of the apparatus, but not when the apparatus is installed for use, i.e. in the utilization position shown in Figures 1-3. When installed, the apparatus 1 faces a correspondingly slotted vertical wall 2 representing the end wall of a frame 3 which bounds the access window or aperture facing the public. The frame is rigidly fixed to the contour of an aperture present in a wall, not shown, which separates the zone accessible to the public from a private environment to which an authorized person has access. Said wall 2 forms part of a stationary sheet metal support body 4 which is rigid with the frame 3 and comprises two L-shaped vertical parallel sides indicated by 5, and a horizontal support part 6. In the horizontal wall 6 there is provided a profiled aperture comprising a straight portion 7 (Figures 3 and 8) with parallel sides, and a circular portion 8 into which the portion 7 extends. For dispensing apparatus (1) to which access is gained by authorized personnel from the front side of the apparatus (1), a support device comprising a stationary support body (4), characterised in that the apparatus (1) is supported by said support body (4) via a slidable and rotatable platform (9). A device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the platform (9) presents rolling means (10) for its resting on the support body (4). A device as claimed in the preceding claims, wherein the platform (9) presents a guide appendix (13) operating within a profiled aperture (7, 8) present in said support body (4). A device as claimed in the preceding claims, wherein the contour of the guide appendix (13) is defined by two circular arc portions and two straight portions. A device as claimed in the preceding claim, wherein the profiled aperture (7, 8) presents a straight portion defined by straight lateral walls spaced apart by approximately the same distance as the two straight portions of the guide appendix (13). A device as claimed in the preceding claims, wherein the profiled aperture (7, 8) presents a portion (8) within which the guide appendix (13) can rotate about a vertical axis. A device as claimed in the preceding claims, wherein means (15, 16, 17, 18, 19) are provided for removably securing the apparatus (1) to the support body (4) to retain it in its utilization position. <seperator>EP-1293879-A2<id_sep>subgroupG06F1slash26subgroup sectionHsection subclassH01Msubclass sectionGsection classH01class subclassG06Fsubclass classG06class subgroupG06F1slash16subgroup subgroupH01M2slash10subgroup A battery pack for an information processing apparatus and the information processing apparatus A battery pack detachably connected to an information processing apparatus, wherein the information processing apparatus includes a body part and a display part supported by the body part and thereby the display part can be opened and closed against the body part, includes a housing part having a hollow part in which a battery can be housed, wherein the hollow part is situated at a position which faces an end part of the display part when the display part is closed.  BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The present invention generally relates to battery packs for information processing apparatuses and the information processing apparatuses, and more particularly, to a high capacity battery pack for a portable personal computer and the portable personal computer to which the pack is detachably connected. A portable personal computer has a battery pack connecting part by which a battery pack is connected to the portable personal computer, situated at a front end side face part of the body part and having a concave shape. A battery pack is connected to the battery pack connecting part, so that the battery pack is placed in an external form of the portable personal computer. A battery arranged in the battery pack is used as an electric power source to operate the portable personal computer. As an option of the battery pack, a high capacity battery pack for a high capacity battery having a higher capacity than a normal battery can be used. Since the high capacity battery pack has a bigger size than a normal battery pack, an overhang part is formed in a state where the high capacity battery pack is connected to the battery pack connecting part of the body part. The overhang part overhangs from a body part side to a front side. FIG. 1 is a perspective view of a related art a high capacity battery pack 10 and a battery pack connecting part 22 of a portable personal computer 20. FIG. 2 is a sectional view of the portable personal computer 20 to which the high capacity battery pack 10 shown in FIG. 1 is connected. Referring to FIGS. 1 and 2, the high capacity battery pack 10 is clamped to the battery pack connecting part 22 situated at a front end side face part of a body part 21 of the portable personal computer 20. The high capacity battery pack 10 has an upper surface 11 which is a plane. When the high capacity battery pack 10 is connected to the portable personal computer 20, a overhang part 12 overhangs from a front end side wall part-23 to a front side, namely a Y2 side. A liquid crystal display part 25 is capable of being opened and closed against the body part 21. An operator hangs and pulls up a front end part 26 of the liquid crystal display part 25 with a fingertip part 30 in order to open the liquid crystal display part 25 and use the portable personal computer 20. However, the overhang part 12 of the high capacity battery pack 10, overhanging from the front end side wall 23 to the front side, namely the Y2 side, is a obstacle to hanging the front end part 26 of the liquid crystal display part 25 with the fingertip part 30 of the operator. Hence, it is hard for the operator to operate to open the liquid crystal display part 25 of the related art portable personal computer 20, and a nail of the fingertip 30 of the operator may be harmed. A battery pack detachably connected to an information processing apparatus, wherein the information processing apparatus includes a body part and a display part supported by the body part and thereby the display part can be opened and closed against the body part, comprising a housing part having a hollow part in which a battery can be housed,    wherein the hollow part is situated at a position which faces an end part of the display part when the display part is closed. The battery pack as claimed in claim 1, wherein a plural battery can be housed in the housing part. The battery pack as claimed in claim 1, wherein the hollow part has a full length of the housing part in a width direction. The battery pack as claimed in claim 1, wherein the housing has upper and lower surfaces and the hollow part is situated on the upper and lower surfaces. The battery pack as claimed in claim 1, wherein the hollow part has a curve configuration. The battery pack as claimed in claim 2, wherein the housing part includes a first battery line housing part and a second battery line housing part in which batteries having column configurations can be respectively are housed, the first battery line housing part and the second battery line housing part are situated parallely in a width direction of the housing part, the housing part has a configuration fitting configurations of the batteries, and the hollow part is situated at a position between the first battery line housing part and the second battery line housing part. An information processing apparatus, comprising:  The information processing apparatus, as claimed in claim 7, wherein a plural battery can be housed in the housing part. The information processing apparatus, as claimed in claim 7, wherein the hollow part has a full length of the housing part in a width direction. The information processing apparatus, as claimed in claim 7, wherein the housing has upper and lower surfaces and the hollow part is situated on the upper and lower surfaces. The information processing apparatus, as claimed in claim 7, wherein the hollow part has a curve configuration. The information processing apparatus, as claimed in claim 8, wherein the housing part includes a first battery line housing part and a second battery line housing part in which batteries having column configurations can be respectively are housed, the first battery line housing part and the second battery line housing part are situated parallely in a width direction of the housing part, the housing part has a configuration fitting configurations of the batteries, and the hollow part is situated at a position between the first battery line housing part and the second battery line housing part. <seperator>EP-1457423-A1<id_sep>subclassB29Lsubclass sectionBsection subgroupB65D41slash04subgroup subgroupB29C45slash37subgroup subclassB65Dsubclass subgroupB65D41slash34subgroup groupB29L1slash00group classB65class groupB29L22slash00group classB29class subclassB29Csubclass subgroupB65D1slash02subgroup groupB65D1slash00group CONTAINER MAIN BODY MADE OF SYNTHETIC RESIN AND PREFORMING MOLD DEVICE It is intended to provide a synthetic resin bottle, in which the stable no-leak condition can be maintained up to a certain cap-turning angle, and air-tightness of the bottle can be fully secured, even if the cap is falsely turned. The body 2 of the synthetic resin bottle is configured to have a smooth seal surface 8 with no irregularity over the entire circumference in the upper portion of the outer neck wall where no parting line is formed. In this configuration, a stable no-leak condition can be maintained up to a certain cap-turning angle, and air-tightness of the bottle can be fully secured, even if the cap is falsely turned.  Technical Field This invention relates to a synthetic resin bottle having the body molded by the biaxial drawing and blow molding, and to a mold for manufacturing preform, which is to be biaxially drawn and blow molded into the body of this synthetic resin bottle. Background of the Invention Beverage bottles such as PET bottles are integrally provided with a tamper-proof ring, which is disposed usually at the lower end of cap skirt and is connected thereto through the breaking pieces that can be broken with the cap movement, so that the bottle can be prevented from being opened falsely in the shop. This ring has some locking pieces on the inner wall. When the cap is turned in the uncapping direction and is screwed upward from the bottle, a stop ring disposed on the outer wall of the bottleneck blocks the locking pieces. At this point, the ring is prevented from rising, but since the climb of the cap is continued, the breaking pieces between the cap and the ring are broken to separate the cap from the ring. By checking on this separation, one can confirm whether the bottle has already been opened or not. The cap is provided with a gasket on the inner wall of the cap to enhance air-tightness and to prevent the contents from running out and outside air from flowing into the bottle when the beverage bottle is under the sealed condition. This gasket is made of a properly elastic material and is pushed to the upper surface of the neck due to strong screw engagement between the cap and the bottleneck. Through this tight contact with the top surface of the neck, the gasket seals the opening of the neck. However, in the case of those caps equipped with a tamper-proof ring, the force of pushing the gasket to the top surface of the neck may become weak with the upward displacement of the cap relative to the bottleneck. This occurs from a point at the limit of screw engagement till the time when the stop ring of the neck blocks the locking pieces of the ring and the breaking pieces start being broken. If a bottle cap is twisted in the shop within a limit in which the breaking pieces are not broken, the bottle looks normal on the exterior. Nevertheless, the sealing function of the gasket is actually in a decreased condition. In this state, the contents tend to be deteriorated, and great anxiety is stirred up in users. A conceivable means of avoiding this inconvenience is to use the outer wall of the neck of the body as the seal surface. However, when the preform is injection-molded before it is biaxially drawn and blow molded into a bottle, a low, vertical ridge of flash 73 may be formed along the parting line over the entire height of the preform (See Fig. 8). If the outer wall of the neck were covered tightly with a gasket 74, an interstice 75 would be formed on both sides of the flash 73. As a result, the cap would have only a small cap-turning angle to maintain a no-leak condition, and there is a fear that the gasket cannot fully demonstrate its sealing function. A synthetic resin bottle having male screw thread (5) raised spirally around the outer wall of neck (4) and having the upper portion of said neck (4) formed into a flat, smooth seal surface (8) over the entire circumference where no parting line is formed. The synthetic resin bottle according to Claim 1, wherein the outer wall of a peripheral projection (19) is used as the seal surface (8) and wherein said peripheral projection (19) is disposed on the outer wall of the upper portion of the neck (4) of bottle (2) and stands out laterally at a larger height than the height of flash (20) that comes out along the parting line. The synthetic resin bottle according to Claim 1 or 2, wherein the seal surface (8) is designed to have a longer axial length than the axially sealable length of gasket (16) inside headed cylindrical cap (3) having female screw thread (11) with which the cap (3) is screwed on the neck (4) of the bottle (2). The synthetic resin bottle according to Claim 3, wherein the seal surface (8) is designed to have a longer axial length than the climb distance of said cap (3) to be reached up to the time when a tamper-proof ring (12) starts being cut from the cap (3) to which the ring (12) has been integrally connected via breaking pieces (13). A preform mold comprising:  The preform mold according to Claim 5, wherein the periphery of the groove concavity (36) has an outer diameter larger than the bore diameter of the cavity mold (33) at the inner top edge, for a distance of at least the height of flash (20) that comes out along the parting line. <seperator>EP-1465182-A1<id_sep>sectionGsection subclassG06Fsubclass classG06class subclassG11Bsubclass groupG06F21slash00group groupG11B20slash00group classG11class Optical media protection driver A method to protect content within protected data areas on a target optical record carrier against unauthorized reading and/or copying with a computer, comprises the steps of  The present invention relates to a method to protect content within protected data areas on a target optical record carrier against unauthorized reading and/or copying with a computer, and an optical record carrier. Optical storage carriers with information stored on one or both sides have come to be used for a variety of purposes, most notably in the music, games, video, and computer industry. Digital information is stored on the optical storage media in the form of pits arranged along circular, concentric tracks on one or on both sides of the disc. The track is typically read from the inside out, but may also be read form outside in, as it is already used for some optical storage media. The data itself on the track is subdivided into frames, each equal in length, containing equal amounts of information. Each frame has a dedicated layout depending on the type of optical storage media (CD, DVD). Such a frame always contains the user data symbols itself but may also contain data for synchronization, merging data between data symbols and error correction. The signal on an optical storage medium itself is asynchronous, which means that in the decoding process synchronization, timing information, parity data or other data has to be spied out from the signal and the signal has to fulfil certain requirements so that it is accessible by a reading device. Due to the nature of such storage media copies can be made easily. To cope with this situation, there exist various copy protection schemes according to which the data relating to the information itself and/or the other data on the storage medium providing access information or relating to the synchronization gets altered to prohibit digital copying while accomplishing accessibility by playback devices. Generally, these copy protection schemes prevent a playback of the information content on computer drives by confusing these drives at least in respect to the access of the information content. To secure an access to the content, a quality reduced version of the content, which is stored "copy protected" in a first session of the optical record carrier, might be provided in a computer accessible manner in a second session of the optical record carrier. Alternatively, the second session might comprise a link to a content server to provide a computer access. Such a content server might also comprise added value, e.g. music clips or bonus material related to the information content on the optical record carrier. The access to the content stored in the second session and/or to the content server might be provided through an executable file that automatically starts after the copy protected optical record carrier is inserted into the computer drive. In view of the above, it is the object underlying the present invention to provide an improved system to protect content within protected data areas on a target optical record carrier against unauthorized reading and/or copying with a computer. According to the present invention, this object is solved by a method to protect content within protected data areas on a target optical record carrier against unauthorized reading and/or copying with a computer as defined in independent claim 1. Preferred embodiments of the method according to the present invention are defined in the respective dependent claims. A computer program product according to the present invention is defined in claim 12, a computer readable storage means according to the present invention is defined in claim 13, and an optical record carrier according to the present invention is defined in claim 14. Method to protect content within protected data areas on a target optical record carrier against unauthorized reading and/or copying with a computer, characterized by the steps of  Method according to claim 1, characterized in that the modifying of read requests and/or of write commands is performed only in case no authentication is available. Method according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that the determining and modifying steps are performed by routines implemented into a drive control layer within the computer. Method according to claim 3, characterized in that the routines  Method according to claim 3 or 4, characterized in that the routines are implemented by a driver that gets installed by an executable that gets automatically started when a target optical record carrier is inserted into the drive. Method according to claim 5, characterized in that the driver  Method according to claim 5 or 6, characterized in that the driver comprises a communication interface to allow an exchange of control data and/or authentication data. Method according to anyone of the preceding claims, characterized in that a target optical record carrier is distinguished from a non target optical record carrier by evaluating  Method according to anyone of the preceding claims, characterized in that a protected data area is identified on basis of  Method according to anyone of the preceding claims, characterized in that a protected data area is defined by  Method according to anyone of the preceding claims, characterized in that the modifying of read requests so that the read data is useless, and/or the modifying of write commands so that the written data is useless comprises Computer program product, comprising computer program means adapted to perform the method steps as defined in anyone of claims 1 to 11 when being executed on a computer, digital signal processor, or the like. Computer readable storage means, comprising a computer program product according to claim 12. Optical record carrier, characterized by an executable that gets automatically started when the optical record carrier is inserted into the drive and that  Optical record carrier according to claim 14, characterized in that the executable is arranged in a data session of a multi-session CD that also comprises an audio session. <seperator>EP-1628159-A2<id_sep>subgroupG03F7slash004subgroup sectionGsection subgroupG03F7slash039subgroup classG03class subclassG03Fsubclass Chemical amplification resist composition and pattern-forming method using the same A chemical amplification resist composition comprising (A) a resin increasing the solubility in an alkali developer by the action of an acid, (B) a compound capable of generating an acid upon irradiation with actinic ray or radiation, (C) a compound having a fluorine atom and a hydroxyl group, and a pKa value of from 4 to 15, and (D) a solvent, and a pattern-forming method using the same. The present invention relates to a chemical amplification resist composition for use in manufacturing processes of semiconductor devices, such as lithographic printing plate and IC, manufacture of circuit substrates of liquid crystals, thermal heads and the like, and other photo-fabrication processes, and also the invention relates to a pattern-forming process using the same. In particular, the invention relates to a chemical amplification resist composition that functions by high energy radiation such as far ultraviolet rays (including excimer lasers), electron beams, X-rays or radiant rays, suitable for the manufacture of a semiconductor integrated circuit, and the invention also relates to a pattern-forming process using the same. In the manufacturing process of semiconductor devices such as IC and LSI, fine processing by lithography using photo-resist compositions has been conventionally performed. In recent years, with the increment of integration of integrated circuits, ultrafine pattern formation of the level of a sub-micron and quarter-micron has come to be required. Under such a circumstance, the exposure wavelengths show a tendency to be shortening, such as from g-ray to i-ray, further to KrF excimer laser ray. Nowadays, lithography using excimer laser rays is an important processing technique in this field, and chemical amplification resists are adopted as the resists suitable for such an excimer laser lithography process. Chemical amplification resist compositions are materials that form a pattern on a substrate by generating an acid upon irradiation with radiation such as far ultraviolet rays on the exposed area, and making difference in solubility in a developing solution of the exposed area and unexposed area with the actinic radiation. Chemical amplification resist compositions are advantageous in that they have high sensitivity and high resolution, and they can form an image with a compound capable of generating an acid (hereinafter referred to as "a photo-acid generator") by irradiation with a small quantity of radiation. The above chemical amplification resist compositions can be classified broadly into (a) s three-component system comprising an alkali-soluble resin, a photo-acid generator, and a compound having an acid-decomposable group that inhibits dissolution of an alkali-soluble resin, (b) a two-component system comprising a resin having a group decomposable by the reaction with an acid and becoming alkali-soluble, and a photo-acid generator, and (c) a hybrid system comprising a resin having a group decomposable by the reaction with an acid and becoming alkali-soluble, a low molecular weight dissolution-inhibiting compound having an acid-decomposable group, and a photo-acid generator. In every positive chemical amplification resist of these two-component system, three- component system and hybrid system, a resist pattern is formed by the development after heat treatment via an acid generated from photo-acid generator upon exposure. In lithography using chemical amplification resists, photo-resists are generally required to be excellent in various characteristics, e.g., sensitivity, resolution, profile, a coating property, heat resistance, dry etching resistance, adhesion, substrate dependency, stability resisting to environmental fluctuations (e.g., dimensional stability of a resist due to the fluctuation of lying time), and focal depth (e.g., a pattern-forming property to focal deviation at the time of irradiation with radiation), and various contrivances of the improvement of performances by means of additives are disclosed. A chemical amplification resist composition comprising: (A) a resin increasing the solubility in an alkali developer by the action of an acid; (B) a compound capable of generating an acid upon irradiation with actinic ray or radiation; (C) a compound having a fluorine atom and a hydroxyl group, and a pKa value of from 4 to 15; and (D) a solvent. The chemical amplification resist composition as claimed in claim 1, wherein the compound (C) includes (Ca) a compound represented by the following formula (FAD-I), (FAD-II) or (FAD-III):  The chemical amplification resist composition as claimed in claim 2, wherein the compound (Ca) is a compound represented by the following formula (FAD-Ia):            HO-CH The chemical amplification resist composition as claimed in claim 1, wherein the content of the component (C) in the solids content of the chemical amplification resist composition is from 0.1 to 10 mass%. The chemical amplification resist composition as claimed in claim 1, wherein the resin (A) has at least one repeating unit selected from the group consisting of a repeating unit having a partial structure containing alicyclic hydrocarbon represented by the following formula (pI), (pII), (pIII), (pIV), (pV) or (pVI), and a repeating unit represented by the following formula (II-AB):  The chemical amplification resist composition as claimed in claim 1, wherein the solvent (D) is a single solvent of alkyl lactate or propylene glycol monoalkyl ether carboxylate, or a mixed solvent containing at least two solvents selected from the group consisting of propylene glycol monoalkyl ether carboxylate, propylene glycol monoalkyl ether, cyclohexanone, and alkyl lactate. The chemical amplification resist composition as claimed in claim 1, which further contains a nitrogen-containing basic compound. The chemical amplification resist composition as claimed in claim 1, which further contains a surfactant containing at least one of a fluorine atom and a silicon atom. A pattern-forming method comprising; forming a resist film with the chemical amplification resist composition as claimed in claim 1; and exposing and developing the resist film. <seperator>EP-1708148-A2<id_sep>subclassG07Fsubclass sectionGsection subgroupG07F7slash10subgroup classG06class subclassG06Qsubclass classG07class groupG06Q20slash00group Method and system for self-administrating 'off-line' monetary transactions The system according to the invention basically comprises:  - one or more smart cards or chip cards called Cash Card, where an integrated circuit chip with a secret code is placed; the Cash Card is available for the public (customers / users) and may be obtained at banks and / or proposed entities;  - one or more smart cards or chip cards called Administrator Cash Card, where an integrated circuit chip with a secret code is placed; The Administrator Cash Card is available for commercial operations and public agencies, and may be obtained at banks and / or proposed entities;  - one or more reading/writing terminals for crediting the Cash Card and the Administrator Cash Card, set up at banks and / or proposed entities;  - one or more "off-line" terminals for reading/debiting the Cash Card and writing/crediting the Administrator Cash Card, placed in any commercial enterprise, private or public agency etc. This kind of devices is not connected to any banking system;  - one or more terminals for Administrator Cash Card debiting or crediting: it is a reading/writing/depositing terminal (to current account, conventional savings account or electronic savings account) set up at banks and / or proposed entities.  The present invention relates to a method and system for self-administrating "off-line" monetary transactions. The purpose of the present invention is replacing cash in all small-scale transactions, thus covering a wide sector of transactions at numerous commercial operations (bar, newsstand, tobacconist, bakery, grocer's, greengrocer, video store, music stores, stationers, florists, hair stylists, etc.) and / or public agencies. Replacing cash in all small-scale transactions is currently served by credit cards or by bank cards. This systems however show a number of drawbacks, like excessive cost and need of a direct electronic connection with the banking system. Therefore it is the main object of the present invention to provide a method and system for self-administrating "off-line" monetary transactions, which solves the above problems of the known solutions. The system according to the invention basically comprises: These and further objects are achieved by means of a method and system for self-administrating "off-line" monetary transactions, as described in the attached claims, which are considered an integral part of the present description. By means of the present invention, a number of advantages are achieved. The Administrator Cash Card differs from all other credit cards because it is not a deferred currencies payment, but an income payment; that means it agrees an immediate credit without expenses on amounts and therefore the availability of the sums present on the Card in real time. In addition for young people, not to carry cash in their pockets and so run the risk of losing it or having it stolen at school, at the cinema, at the discotheque, etc.; for the majority of adults, relieving them of the problem of small change and cumbersome wallets; for shopping centres and all retailers, it avoids the danger of thefts and robbery. The invention will become fully clear from the following detailed description, given by way of a mere exemplifying and non limiting example, to be read with reference to the attached drawing figures, wherein: The same reference numerals and letters in the figures designate the same or functionally equivalent parts. With reference to figures 1 and 2, it is shown an off-line terminal for cash-card reading and unloading, as well as the Administrator Cash Card writing and loading, functional for monetary self-administration transaction system, according to the present invention. In figure 1 a first embodiment shows a Cash Card and Administrator Cash Card reading/writing device 1 as an electronic/computer device (off-line) shaped by a display and a keyboard and ready to the acceptance of the two cards , which may be located inside the commercial centers and/or public agencies. In figure 2 a second embodiment shows a Cash Card and Administrator Cash Card off-line reading/writing terminal 2 as a cash register for commercial uses predisposed with electronic/computer device shaped by a display and a keyboard for the two cards acceptance, already integrated on the inside of the novel cash recorders set up at commercial centres and / or public agencies. For said first and second embodiments 1 and 2, two kinds of input-output devices are possible. The first one, in fig. 3, shows an off-line electronic/computer terminal 3 shaped by a display and a keyboard and ready to the acceptance of the two cards. The second one, in fig. 4, represents an off-line electronic/computer terminal 4 called "Touch Pad" or "Touch Screen" ready for the acceptance of the two cards. System for self-administrating monetary transactions,  System as in claim 1,  System as in claim 1,  System as in any of claims from 1 to 3,  System as in claim 4,  Method for self-administrating monetary transactions, said method being used in a system as in any of claims 1 to 5,  Method according to claim 6,  Method according to claim 6 or 7,  Computer program comprising computer program code means adapted to perform all the steps of claim 6, 7 and 8, when said program is run on a computer. A computer readable medium having a program recorded thereon, said computer readable medium comprising computer program code means adapted to perform all the steps of claim 6, 7 and 8, when said program is run on a computer. <seperator>EP-1447172-A1<id_sep>groupB24B5slash00group groupB24B21slash00group subgroupB24B53slash007subgroup sectionBsection groupB24B19slash00group subgroupB24B19slash12subgroup subgroupB24B5slash42subgroup groupB24B37slash00group subclassB24Bsubclass classB24class Surface finishing apparatus and method A film feeder (FF1) feeds a film (1), a first drive (20) rotates a work (W), a second drive (30) moves the work (W) relative to the film(1), a shoe set handler (40) handles the shoe set (2) to press the film (1) against the work (W), and a deterioration delayer (C) is configured to delay an abrasivity deterioration of the film (1).  BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to a lapping apparatus and a lapping method, and in particular, to a lapping apparatus and a lapping method using a lapping abrasive film (hereafter called "lapping film" or "film") as a tool. Recent spreads of need to high-precision work have called attention to a succeeded ultra finish using a lapping film. For ultra finish, an abrasive face of a lapping film is pressed on a work with a pushing shoe at the back, and the work is rotated and oscillated to be lapped, as in Japanese Patent Application Laying-Open Publication No. 7-237116. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION The abrasive face of lapping film has a multiplicity of abrasive particles adhering thereto, and tends to be soon blocked, with a resultant deterioration of abrasivity. The present invention is made with this point in view. It therefore is an object of the invention to provide a lapping apparatus and a lapping method that can cope with such deteriortion. To achieve the object, according to an aspect of the invention, a lapping apparatus comprises a lapping film, a film feeder configured to feed the film, a first drive configured to rotate a work, a second drive configured to move the work relative to the film, a shoe set, a shoe set handler configured to handle the shoe set to press the film against the work, and a deterioration delayer configured to delay an abrasivity deterioration of the film. According to another aspect of the invention, a lapping method comprises feeding a lapping film, rotating a work, moving the work relative to the film, handling a shoe set to press the film against the work, and delaying an abrasivity deterioration of the film. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS The above and further objects and novel features of the present invention will more fully appear from the following detailed description when the same is read in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which: DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS There will be described below six preferred embodiments of the present invention, as well as modifications of some of them, with reference to the accompanying drawings. Like members or elements are designated by like reference characters. Description is now made of a first embodiment of the invention, with reference to Fig. 1 to Fig. 5. Fig. 1 shows a lapping apparatus 100 as a machine tool according to the first embodiment, in a three-dimensional space defined by an orthogonal X-Y-Z coordinate system, where the apparatus 100 has a machine-longitudinal direction parallel to an X-axis, a machine-transverse direction parallel to a Y-axis, and a machine height along a Z-axis. The lapping apparatus 100 includes a machine frame FR fixed to a foundation (not shown), a lower table 27 mounted on the frame FR and configured to be longitudinally displaced in a sliding manner relative to the frame FR, and a pair of front and rear upper tables 26 each respectively mounted on the lower table 27 and configured to be transversely displaced in a sliding manner relative to the lower table 27. Tables 26, 27 have their screw-feed systems (not shown) controlled from an NC (numerical controlling) controller C (serving as the brain of an abrasivity deterioration delayer). A lapping apparatus (100; 200; 300; 400; 500; 600) comprising:  The lapping apparatus (100, 101-j) as claimed in claim 1, wherein    the shoe set (2) comprises a first shoe (2a) of a width (L), and a second shoe (2b) of the width (L) at a distance (T) of the width (L) times an integer (n) from the first shoe (2a), and    the deterioration delayer comprises a controller (C) configured to control the film feeder (FF1) to feed the film (1) at a distance of the width (L). The lapping apparatus (100, 101-j) as claimed in claim 2, wherein    the shoe set (2) comprises a number of shoes (2a, 2b, 2c) equal to the integer (n). The lapping apparatus (101-j) as claimed in claim 2 or 3, wherein    the shoe set comprises a first shoe set (2a, 2b, 2c), and a second shoe set (2a, 2b, 2c), and    the deterioration delayer comprises a detector (180, 181) configured to detect a condition of an abrasive face (Sf) of the film (1) between the first shoe set (2a, 2b, 2c) and the second shoe set (2a, 2b, 2c), and    the controller (C) is configured to control the film feeder (6) in dependence on the condition detected by the detector (1810,181). The lapping apparatus (200, 210-j, 211-j, 212-j) as claimed in claim 1, wherein    the shoe set comprises a first shoe set (2a, 2b, 2c), and a second shoe set (2a, 2b, 2c), and    the deterioration delayer comprises a cleaner (CL1, CL2, CL3, CL4) configured to clean an abrasive face (Bf) of the film (1) between the first shoe set (2a, 2b, 2c) and the second shoe set (2a, 2b, 2c). The lapping apparatus (210-j, 211-j, 212-j) as claimed in claim 5, wherein    the deterioration delayer comprises a film warper (R31, R32) configured to warp the film (1) with the abrasive face (Sf) outside. The lapping apparatus (210-j) as claimed in claim 5 or 6, wherein    the cleaner (CL2) comprises an ultrasonic brush (207). The lapping apparatus (211-j) as claimed in claim 5 or 6, wherein    the cleaner (CL3) comprises an ultrasonic bath (208). The lapping apparatus (212-j) as claimed in claim 5 or 6, wherein    the cleaner (CL4) comprises a jet nozzle (209). The lapping apparatus (212-j) as claimed in any one of claims 5 to 9, wherein    the film (1) comprises a flexible and non-expansive substrate (SB). The lapping apparatus (300, 303) as claimed in claim 1, wherein    the shoe set comprises a first shoe (2), and a second shoe (2), and    the deterioration delayer comprises a first detour provider (341) configured to provide the film (1) with a first detour defining a first space (342, 345) between the first shoe (2) and the second shoe (2), and a lubricant supplier (LD, LD1) configured to supply a lubricant to the first space (342, 345). The lapping apparatus (300, 303) as claimed in claim 11, wherein    the film (1) comprises a flexible and non-expansive substrate (SB). The lapping apparatus (300, 303) as claimed in claim 11, wherein    the shoe set comprises a third shoe (2),    the deterioration delayer comprises a second detour provider (341) configured to provide the film (1) with a second detour defining a second space (342, 345) between the second shoe (2) and the third shoe (2), and    the lubricant supplier (LD, LD1) is configured to supply the lubricant to the second space (342, 345). The lapping apparatus (300,303) as claimed in claim 11 or 13, wherein    the first detour provider (341) comprises a tension roller (350) configured for the first detour to detour therearound, and a bias element (349) configured to bias the tension roller (350) in a detoured direction of the first detour. The lapping apparatus (300, 303) as claimed in claim 14, wherein    the tension roller (350) is rotatable. The lapping apparatus (300, 303) as claimed in any one of claims 11 to 15, wherein    the deterioration delayer comprises a shoe case (3, 361) having a first support part (344) configured to support the first shoe (2), and a second support part (344) configured to support the second shoe (2), the first and second support parts (344) extending in radial directions of the work (W) defining therebetween a slot (345) configured to accommodate the first detour and the first detour provider (341) resiliently suspended from the shoe case (3, 361). The lapping apparatus (300, 303) as claimed in claim 16, wherein    the lubricant supplier (LD, LD1) comprises a network of lubricant paths (346) formed in the shoe case (3, 361) and communicating with the first space (342). The lapping apparatus ( 303) as claimed in claim 11, wherein    the lubricant supplier (LD1) is configured to deliver the lubricant from around the first detour provider (341). The lapping apparatus (400) as claimed in claim 1, wherein    the deterioration delayer comprises a film oscillator (432) configured to oscillate the film (1) at a higher speed in a feed direction of the film (1) than a rotational speed of the work (W). The lapping apparatus (400) as claimed in claim 19, wherein    the second drive comprises a work oscillator (30) configured to oscillate the work (W) relative to the film (1) in a direction of an axis of rotation of the work (W). The lapping apparatus (400) as claimed in claim 19 or 20, wherein    the film oscillator comprises an oscillating film drawer (436) configured with a film roller (R44) having the film (1) detoured therearond through the shoe set (2), and a radial oscillator (M44) configured to oscillate the film roller (R44) in a first radial direction of the work (W), and a tensioning film drawer (437) configured with a tension roller (R3) having the film (1) detoured therearound through the shoe set (2), and a bias element (438) configured to resiliently bias the tension roller (R3) in a second radial direction of the work (W) different from the first radial direction. The lapping apparatus (400) as claimed in claim 21, wherein    the film oscillator comprises the oscillating film drawer (436), another oscillating film drawer (436), and tensioning film drawer (437) disposed therebetween. The lapping apparatus (400) as claimed in any one of claims 19 to 22, wherein    the film feeder (FF4) comprises a film locker (7) configured to lock the film (1) at a first acting point on the film (1), and    the film oscillator comprises a tension controller (441) configured to control a tension of the film (1) at a second acting point on the film (1) between the first acting point and the shoe set (2). The lapping apparatus (400) as claimed in any one of claims 19 to 23, wherein    the film (1) comprises a flexible and non-expansive substrate (SB). The lapping apparatus (500, 501, 502) as claimed in claim 1, wherein    the deterioration delayer comprises a film detector (RD, 504) configured to detect a condition of an abrasive face (Bf) of the film (1), and a controller (C) configured to control one of the film feeder (FF5, FF51, FF52) and the shoe set handler (540, 541, 542) depending on the condition detected. The lapping apparatus (500, 501, 502) as claimed in claim 25, wherein    the condition detected comprises a projection (h) of an abrasive particle (AP) of the abrasive face (Bf). The lapping apparatus (500) as claimed in claim 25 or 26, wherein    the deterioration delayer comprises a truer (507) configured to true the abrasive face (Bf) depending on the condition detected. The lapping apparatus (501) as claimed in any one of claims 25 or 27, wherein    the film detector (RD, 504) is configured to detect the condition of the abrasive face (Bf) before a lapping service. The lapping apparatus (502) as claimed in any one of claims 25 or 27, wherein the film detector (RD, 504) is configured to detect the condition of the abrasive face (Bf) after a lapping service. The lapping apparatus (600, 601-j) as claimed in claim 1, wherein    the shoe set comprises a convex shoe (671),    the shoe set handler comprise a shoe floater (630, 631) configured to float the shoe (671), and    the deterioration delayer comprises a controller (C) configured to control a location of contact between the shoe (671), the film (1), and the work (W). The lapping apparatus (600) as claimed in claim 30, wherein    the controller comprises a detector (S1) configured to detect a position of the work (W), and a drive (633) configured to drive the shoe (671) to change the location of contact depending on the position detected. The lapping apparatus (601-j) as claimed in claim 30, wherein    the floater comprise a pair of springs (675, 676) suspending the shoe (671), and    the controller (C) is configured to control positions of the pair of springs (675, 676) to change a position of the shoe (671). The lapping apparatus (600) as claimed in claim 32, wherein    the pair of springs (675, 676) have different spring constants. The lapping apparatus (600) as claimed in any one of claims 30 to 33, wherein the film (1) comprises a flexible and non-expansive substrate (SB). The lapping apparatus (100; 200; 300; 400; 500; 600) as claimed in claim 1, wherein    the deterioration delayer comprises a blocking delayer (C) configured to delay a blocking of the film (1). A lapping apparatus (100; 200; 300; 400; 500; 600) comprising:  A lapping method comprising:  The lapping method as claimed in claim 37, wherein    the shoe set (2) comprises a first shoe (2a) of a width (L), and a second shoe (2b) of the width (L) at a distance (T) of the width (L) times an integer (n) from the first shoe (2a), and    the delaying comprises controlling the film feeder (FF1) to feed the film (1) at a distance of the width (L). The lapping method as claimed in claim 38, wherein    the shoe set (2) comprises a number of shoes (2a, 2b, 2c) equal to the integer (n). The lapping method as claimed in claim 37 or 38, wherein    the shoe set comprises a first shoe set (2a, 2b, 2c), and a second shoe set (2a, 2b, 2c), and    the delaying comprises detecting a condition of an abrasive face (Sf) of the film (1) between the first shoe set (2a, 2b, 2c) and the second shoe set (2a, 2b, 2c), and    the controlling comprise depending on the condition detected. The lapping method as claimed in claim 37, wherein    the shoe set comprises a first shoe set (2a, 2b, 2c), and a second shoe set (2a, 2b, 2c), and    the delaying comprises cleaning an abrasive face (Bf) of the film (1) between the first shoe set (2a, 2b, 2c) and the second shoe set (2a, 2b, 2c). The lapping method as claimed in claim 37, wherein    the shoe set comprises a first shoe (2), and a second shoe (2), and    the delaying comprises providing the film (1) with a detour defining a space (342, 345) between the first shoe (2) and the second shoe (2), and supplying a lubricant to the space (342, 345). The lapping method as claimed in claim 37, wherein    the delaying comprises oscillating the film (1) at a higher speed in a feed direction of the film (1) than a rotational speed of the work (W). The lapping method as claimed in claim 37, wherein    the delaying comprises detecting a condition of an abrasive face (Bf) of the film (1), and controlling one of feeding and handling depending on the condition detected. The lapping method as claimed in claim 37, wherein    the shoe set comprises a convex shoe (671),    the handling comprise floating the shoe (671), and    the delaying comprises controlling a location of contact between the shoe (671), the film (1), and the work (W). <seperator>EP-1698368-A1<id_sep>subgroupA61M25slash02subgroup sectionAsection classA61class subclassA61Msubclass A device for fixating a tube A device (10) for fixating a tube relative to a skin surface of a patient and which comprises a plaster component (12) including a support foil having an aperture (14) for receiving the tube. The first side surface is provided with an adhesive layer for fixating the plaster component relative to the skin of the patient. The device further comprises a support component (30) arranged at the second side surface of the plaster component and protrudes from the second side surface. The support component is arranged adjacent to the aperture. The support component is constituted by a thin shell of a plastics material being elastically collapsible and deformable. The support component defines an inner surface within the shell and has an inner reinforcing element. The support component and the plaster component is joined together.  The present invention generally relates to the technique of applying and fixating a tube, such as a drainage tube, relative to a skin surface part of a patient or person, and more precisely a device for fixating such tube relative to a skin surface part of a patient or person, and an assembly comprising the device and the tube. It is a well-known technique to enter a tube through the skin of a patient or person in order to drain liquid from a cavity within the patient or person, e.g. after a surgical operation. In certain applications, the tube is also used for creating a vacuum within the cavity which is drained by means of the tube. An example of such an application is the treatment of a collapsed lung, in which application the cavity of the thorax of the patient in question is evacuated through a pleural tube in order to cause an adhesion of the pulmonary pleura of the patient to the costal pleura of the patient. In all applications of tubes, such as drainage tubes, there exists a risk that the tube is blocked as the tube is bent, or kinks of the tube are produced. An alternative application of a tube not being a drainage tube in the administration of a drug or other medical fluid. Provided the tube is to be vented for creating a vacuum within the cavity which is vented through the tube, a further problem exists in creating a reliable and lasting sealing of the entrance of the tube through the skin of the patient, and further an overall desire of rendering it possible to create a sealing and a fixation of the tube in a swift and reliable manner. Hitherto, the tube, such as a pleural tube which is used for venting the cavity of the thorax of the patient, the lung of whom has collapsed, has been fixated and sealed in a manual operation in which the medical doctor who applies the pleural tube arranges one or more vaseline-impregnated wads round the pleural tube at the entrance of the pleural tube through the skin of the patient and compresses the vaseline-impregnated wads in order to create a sealing at the entrance. Thereupon, the vaseline-impregnated wads and the pleural tube as well are fixated by means of plaster. The technique of applying and fixating a tube, in particular a venting drainage tube, such as a pleural tube, is a complex and time-consuming operation which requires skill and which further often turns out to be inadequate and inappropriate as the sealing of the entrance of the pleural tube through the skin of the patient in question leaks, causing great harm to the patient. Various devices for fixating a tube have recently been developed as disclosed in eg. US patent no. 4,419,094, US patent no. 4,645,492, WO 91/07204, WO 93/17738, WO 93/25264, WO 95/33508 and WO 97/21459. Reference is made to the above patents and patent applications, and the above US patents are hereby incorporated in the present specification by reference. When using these known devices, a proximal part of the tube extending from the body of the patient through a through-going passage in the device, is bent to form a loop whereby a distal part of the tube is fixated to the skin surface of the patient by means of eg. a separate piece of plaster. This procedure, however, gives rise to a potential risk of the tube becoming blocked if the tube is inadvertently doubled or bent upon itself. A device for fixating a tube relative to a skin surface part of a patient or person, comprising:  The device according to claim 1, said reinforcing element being a separate supporting or reinforcing element positioned within said shell or received within said plastics material of said shell. The device according to claim 1, said reinforcing element being an integral reinforcing rib positioned within said shell extending along and possibly parallel with at least a part of the outer surface part. The device according to claim 1, said reinforcing element being positioned within said shell and below at least a part of said outer surface part. The device according to any of the claims 1 - 4, said plastics material being capable of standing exposure to a sterilizing gas, such as T-gas. The device according to claims 4 or 5, said support component having two or more reinforcing elements or reinforcing ribs. The device according to any of the claims 1-6, said support component having a through-going hole through said shell for allowing gas to escape through said hole when elastically collapsing or compressing said shell. The device according to any of the claims 1 - 7, said inner reinforcing rib extending along the entire length of said outer surface part. The device according to any of the claims 1 - 7, said outer surface part being unsupported by said inner supporting rib adjacent to said aperture of said plaster component. The device according to any of the claims 1 - 9, said support component further including one or more distance elements positioned within said shell at one or more positions and delimiting the height of compression of said shell at said one or more positions. The device according to any of the claims 1 - 10, said plastics material being a copolymer of ethylene butyl acrylate. The device according to any of the claims 1 - 11, said shell having a thickness of approximately 0.5 - 1.5 mm, such as 0.6 - 1.0 mm, e.g. approximately 0.6 - 0.8 mm, or a thickness of 0.6 - 0.7 mm, 0.7 - 0.8 mm, 0.8 - 0.9 mm, 0.9 - 1.0 mm, 1.0 - 1.1 mm, 1.1 - 1.2 mm, 1.2 - 1.3 mm, 1.3 - 1.4 mm or 1.4 - 1.5 mm. The device according to any of the claims 1 - 12, said plaster component and said support component being joint together by means of a connecting component. The device according to claim 13, said connecting component constituting an integral flange of said support component. The device according to any of the claims 13 or 14, said connecting component being provided with an aperture, said aperture being in registration with said aperture of said plaster component. The device according to any of the claims 1 - 15, said outer surface part of said support component being substantially rectilinear. The device according to any of the claims 1 -16, said support component providing lateral support of said tube. The device according to any of the claims 1 - 17, further compring securing means for securing said length of said tube relative to said support component. The device according to claim 18, said securing means forming an integral part of said support component. The device according to claim 18, said securing means being integrally connected to said plaster component. The device according to any of the claims 18 - 20, said securing means comprising an adhesive strip for fixating said tube. The device according to any of the claims 18 - 21, said securing means being provided with a transparent area in the area of the aperture of said plaster component. An assembly of a tube and a device for fixating said drainaga tube relative to a skin surface part of a patient or person, said device having any of the features of the device according to any of the claims 1 - 22. <seperator>EP-1577398-A1<id_sep>sectionGsection subclassG01Nsubclass subgroupG01N33slash92subgroup classG01class METHOD OF MULTIPLE QUANTIFICATION OF CHOLESTEROL IN LOW-DENSITY LIPOPROTEINS The present invention is intended to provide a method for simultaneously measuring cholesterol in low density lipoprotein and total cholesterol as test components in blood. Specifically, a method is used for simultaneously measuring cholesterol in low density lipoprotein and total cholesterol in a biological sample, whereby cholesterol in low density lipoprotein and total cholesterol in a biological sample are quantified with a single measurement.  The present invention relates to a method for simultaneously measuring cholesterol in low density lipoprotein and total cholesterol as test components in blood. Low density lipoprotein (hereinafter, referred to as "LDL") plays a major role in cholesterol transportation in blood. In particular, most cholesterol deposited on blood vessel walls in the case of atherosclerosis is derived from LDL. An increase in the amount of LDL cholesterol is one of the major risk factors of arteriosclerotic diseases. Thus separate quantification of LDL cholesterol is clinically useful. Moreover, total cholesterol measurement involves measuring cholesterol in all lipoproteins such as chylomicron (CM), very low density lipoprotein (VLDL), LDL, and high density lipoprotein (HDL). Total cholesterol measurement is still a major lipid test. Conventional methods for quantifying LDL cholesterol include a method comprising two operations (fractionation and cholesterol quantification) and a calculation method using Friedewald's equation based on total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, and triglyceride levels. Fractionation includes an ultracentrifugation method, a precipitation method, an immunological method, and the like. These methods require centrifugation or filtration of samples, so that they are currently hardly spread in the field of clinical examination, in light of convenience and economy. Moreover, the calculation method that involves Friedewald's equation is also problematic in terms of accuracy because it does not take individual variability into consideration and the use thereof is limited. However, recently, a method for quantifying LDL cholesterol that does not require fractionation, has been reported (JP Patent Publication (Kokai) No. 11-318496 A (1999)). This is currently applied for a reagent for clinical examination in the field of examination. This method comprises a first step of selectively erasing cholesterol in lipoproteins other than LDL in a sample (the term "erase" means to decompose ester-type cholesterol and free cholesterol and to make the decomposed products undetectable in a subsequent second step) and a second step of quantifying LDL cholesterol. However, although the above reagent for measuring LDL cholesterol is a clinically useful, the use of the reagent has not readily become widespread. This is because total cholesterol measurement has been broadly conducted conventionally and LDL cholesterol levels can be obtained by the use of Friedewald's equation. However, as described above, LDL cholesterol levels obtained by the use of Friedewald's equation are problematic. Thus, precise measurement of LDL cholesterol levels has clinical significance. Hence, it has been desired to further improve and diffuse the use of a reagent for measuring LDL cholesterol, which has high clinical significance. In the meantime, concerning measurement of cholesterol in HDL, a method for continuously measuring cholesterol in HDL and total cholesterol with a single measurement has been reported (M L Sampson et al., Ann Clin Biochem, 37, 479-487, 2000). This method comprises putting a sample in a test tube, measuring HDL cholesterol in the sample using an anti-apoB antibody, disrupting a complex of the anti-apoB antibody and an apoB antibody (HDL cholesterol with the anti-apoB antibody bound thereto) using deoxycholic acid, and then enzymatically measuring the remaining non-HDL cholesterol. The total cholesterol level can be found by totaling values obtained by two instances of measurement. Total cholesterol and HDL cholesterol are conventionally measured broadly in medical checkup and the like. Thus, the ability to measure both cholesterol levels simultaneously is significant. A method for simultaneously measuring cholesterol in low density lipoprotein and total cholesterol in a biological sample, whereby cholesterol in low density lipoprotein and total cholesterol in a biological sample are quantified with a single measurement. The method of claim 1, which comprises a first step in which cholesterol in lipoproteins other than the low density lipoprotein in a biological sample is reacted and a second step in which cholesterol in the remaining low density lipoprotein is reacted. The method of claim 1, whereby a measurement value reflecting the existing amount of cholesterol in lipoproteins other than the low density lipoprotein in a biological sample and a measurement value reflecting the existing amount of cholesterol in the low density lipoprotein are obtained with a single measurement and then the existing amounts of cholesterol in the low density lipoprotein and total cholesterol in the biological sample are simultaneously measured based on the two above values. The method of claim 3, which comprises the first step of obtaining a measurement value reflecting the existing amount of cholesterol in lipoproteins other than the low density lipoprotein in a biological sample and a second step of obtaining a measurement value reflecting the existing amount of cholesterol in the remaining low density lipoprotein. The method of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein, in the presence of a surfactant acting on lipoproteins other than the low density lipoprotein, the first step comprises causing cholesterol esterase and cholesterol oxidase to act on lipoproteins other than the low density lipoprotein in a biological sample, converting the generated hydrogen peroxide into a quinone dye, and then measuring the resultant, or comprises causing cholesterol esterase and cholesterol dehydrogenase to act on lipoproteins other than the low density lipoprotein in a biological sample and then measuring the generated NADH (reduced β-nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide). The method of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the second step comprises, adding a surfanctant acting at least on the low density lipoprotein to the reaction product of the first step, causing cholesterol esterase and cholesterol oxidase to act on the remaining low density lipoprotein, converting the generated hydrogen peroxide to the quinone dye, and then measuring the resultant or comprises causing cholesterol esterase and cholesterol dehydrogenase to act on the remaining low density lipoprotein and then measuring the generated NADH (reduced β-nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide). The method of any one of claims 1 to 6, in which analysis is carried out under different measurement conditions with a single measurement using an automated analyzer for clinical and chemical examination. The method of any one of claims 1 to 7, in which cholesterol in low density lipoprotein in blood is quantified by finding the difference between absorbances obtained as measurement values in the first and second steps. The method of any one of claims 1 to 8, in which total cholesterol is quantified by finding total absorbance based on a change in absorbance obtained as a measurement value in the first step and a change in absorbance obtained as a measurement value in the second step. A reagent composition for simultaneously measuring cholesterol in low density lipoprotein and total cholesterol in a biological sample according to the method of any one of claims 1 to 6. The reagent composition of claim 10, which comprises a surfactant acting on lipoproteins other than the low density lipoprotein, a surfactant acting on at least the low density lipoprotein, cholesterol esterase, and cholesterol oxidase. The reagent composition of claim 10, which comprises the surfanctant acting on lipoproteins other than the low density lipoprotein, the surfactant acting on at least the low density lipoprotein, cholesterol esterase, and cholesterol dehydrogenase. <seperator>EP-1536060-A1<id_sep>groupD21F1slash00group classD21class sectionDsection subclassD21Fsubclass Forming Fabric A forming fabric having a set of paper side warp yarns, which interlace with both a set of paper side weft yarns and a set of binder wefts and a set of machine side warp yarns which interlace with a set of machine side weft yarns and the set of binder weft yarns, whereby the binder weft yarns are disposed in groups of at least two, and whereby both binder weft yarns of at least one binder group, in total, form fewer knuckles over the paper side warp yarns than the paper side weft yarns.   1. Field of the invention The present invention relates to fabrics employed in web forming equipment, such as papermaking and non-woven web forming equipment, and, more particularly, to forming fabrics in web forming equipment; most preferably in papermaking machines. 2. Description of the related art Paper is conventionally manufactured by conveying a paper furnish, usually consisting of an initial slurry of cellulose fibers, on a forming fabric or between two forming fabrics in a forming section, the nascent sheet then is passed through a pressing section and ultimately through a drying section of a papermaking machine. In the case of standard tissue paper machines, the paper web is transferred from the press fabric to a Yankee dryer cylinder and then creped. Papermachine fabric is essentially employed to carry the paper web through these various stages of the papermaking machine. In the forming section the fibrous furnish is wet-laid onto a moving forming wire and water is encouraged to drain from it by way of suction boxes and foils. The paper web is then transferred to a press fabric that conveys it through the pressing section, where it usually passes through a series of pressure nips formed by rotating cylindrical press rolls. Water is squeezed from the paper web and into the press fabric as the web and fabric pass through the nip together. In the final stage, the paper web is transferred either to a Yankee dryer, in the case of tissue paper manufacture, or to a set of drying cylinders upon which, aided by the clamping action of the dryer fabric, the majority of the remaining water is evaporated. So-called "triple-layer" or composite paper machine fabrics are known in the art. These generally include paper side and machine side warp and weft yarn systems, which are bound together by binder yarns. The binder yarns may be disposed as single additional weft yarns with the exclusive function of binding the discrete fabric layers into a single composite structure. European Patent EP 0 269 070 to JWI, for example, shows such a structure. Because of the practical limitations in the frequency of bindings, between the binder yarns and the warp yarns of the paper side and wear side layers of composite structures with only a single binder yarn, there is a limit to the delamination resistance. Further, in this structure the binder yarns change from weaving above a paper side warp, to weaving below a wear side warp within the space of several warp yarns, such that undesirable basis weight variation may occur in the sheet. From European Patent EP 1 000 197 binder yarns disposed in pairs are known. According to this document the binder yarns are "integrated" into the papermaking surface and so called integrated binder yarns. The binder yarns of each pair are interwoven with the top and bottom machine direction yarns such that, as a fiber support portion of the first binder yarn is interwoven with the top machine direction yarns, a binding portion of the second binder yarn is positioned below the top machine direction yarns and vice versa. Further, the first and second binder yarns cross each other as they pass below a transitional top machine direction yarn. Although the binder yarns are integrated into the papermaking surface, imperfections in the weave of the "integrated" binders sometimes impart wire marking on the paper sheet. A forming fabric, comprising:  The forming fabric of claim 1, wherein both said binder weft yarns of at least one binder group float below at least two consecutive paper side warp yarns. The forming fabric of claim 1, wherein both of said binder weft yarns of at least one binder group flow below a plurality of at least two consecutive paper side warp yarns. The forming fabric of claim 1, wherein both said binder weft yarns of at least one binder group in total pass more often below said machine side warp yarns than above said paper side warp yarns. The forming fabric of claim 1, wherein at least one binder weft yarn of said at least one binder group passes above only one paper side warp yarn to form a knuckle and passes below a plurality of machine side warp yarns. The forming fabric of claim 1, wherein each of said binder weft yarns of said at least one binder group pass above only one paper side warp yarn and below a plurality of machine side warp yarns. The forming fabric of claim 1, wherein at least one binder weft yarn of said at least one binder group has an equal number of bindings with said machine side warp yarns and said paper side warp yarns. The forming fabric of claim 1, wherein at least one binder weft yarn of said at least one binder group passes more often above said paper side warp yarns than below said machine side warp yarns. The forming fabric of claim 1, wherein a binder weft yarn of said at least one binder group and a paper side weft yarn of said plurality of paper side weft yarns are positioned adjacent said binder group thereby forming knuckles over a common paper side warp yarn. The forming fabric of claim 9, wherein said binder weft yarn and said paper side weft yarn are separated by at least one of at least one binder weft yarn and a paper side weft yarn that passes below said common paper side warp yarn. The forming fabric of claim 1, wherein a plurality of pairs of warp yarns are each defined as one of said plurality of paper side warp yarns and a corresponding one of said plurality of machine side warp yarns, at least one of said plurality of binder weft yarns floating between at least two consecutive pairs of warp yarns before traveling one of from a paper side of the fabric to a machine side of the fabric and from said machine side of the fabric to said paper side of the fabric. The forming fabric of claim 1, wherein a plurality of pairs of warp yarns are each defined as one of said plurality of paper side warp yarns and a corresponding one of said plurality of machine side warp yarns, at least one of said plurality of binder weft yarns float between at least two consecutive pairs of warp yarns and is bound at each end of said float by one of said paper side warp yarns and said machine side warp yarns, thereby forming a fabric stiffening binder yarn section. The forming fabric of claim 1, wherein at least one of said plurality of paper side weft yarns is positioned adjacent to said group of at least two binder weft yarns, said at least one of said plurality of paper side weft yarns floating under at least two consecutive said paper side warp yarns, at least one of said binder weft yarns of said binder group forming a knuckle over one of the said at least two consecutive paper side warp yarns. The forming fabric of claim 13, wherein said at least one of said plurality of paper side weft yarns floats under an odd number of said consecutive paper side warp yarns. The forming fabric of claim 14, wherein said at least one of said plurality of paper side weft yarns floats under one of 3, 5 and 7 of said consecutive paper side warp yarns. The forming fabric of claim 13, wherein a plurality of pairs of warp yarns are each defined as one of said plurality of paper side warp yarns and a corresponding one of said plurality of machine side warp yarns, said at least one of said plurality of paper side weft yarns floating between said warp yarns of each of at least two consecutive said pairs. The forming fabric of claim 1, wherein at least one of said plurality of paper side warp yarns, said plurality of paper side weft yarns, said plurality of machine side warp yarns, said plurality of machine side weft yarns and said plurality of binder weft yarns have a different yarn diameter. The forming fabric of claim 1, wherein at least one of said at least two binder weft yarns of said binder group has a different yarn diameter. The forming fabric of claim 1, wherein the fabric has one of a 16 warp, a 20 warp, a 24 warp, a 28 warp, a 32 warp and a 40 warp repeat. The forming fabric of claim 1, wherein the fabric has a greater than 40 warp repeat. The forming fabric of claim 1, wherein said plurality of machine side wefts are single interlaced with said plurality of machine side warps over one of a 5 shaft repeat and a 6 shaft repeat. The forming fabric of claim 1, wherein said plurality of machine side warps make multiple non-adjacent interlacings with said plurality of machine side wefts over one of an 8 shaft repeat and a 10 shaft repeat. The forming fabric of claim 1, wherein at least some of said yarns are interlaced to form a weave on a paper side of the fabric, said weave one of a plain weave, a twill weave and a sateen weave. The forming fabric of claim 1, wherein the fabric has a permeability of from approximately 200 c.f.m. to approximately 1,000 c.f.m. A method of manufacturing a fiber web, comprising the steps of:  <seperator>EP-1721609-A2<id_sep>classC12class subclassA61Ksubclass subgroupC07D401slash04subgroup subgroupC07D471slash04subgroup groupC07D401slash00group classG01class subgroupC12N15slash11subgroup subclassG01Nsubclass subgroupG01N33slash68subgroup subclassC07Dsubclass classA61class subclassC12Qsubclass sectionGsection subgroupC07D401slash14subgroup groupA61P25slash00group subgroupC07K16slash40subgroup subclassC07Ksubclass groupC07D409slash00group subgroupA61K31slash7084subgroup classC07class subgroupA61K31slash506subgroup subgroupA61K31slash7088subgroup subgroupC12Q1slash42subgroup subclassC12Nsubclass subgroupA61P25slash28subgroup subclassA61Psubclass groupC07D471slash00group sectionCsection subgroupC07D409slash14subgroup subgroupC12Q1slash48subgroup sectionAsection Pyridylpyrimidine derivatives as effective compounds against prion diseases The present invention relates to pyridylpyrimidine derivatives of the general formula (I):  The present invention relates to pyridylpyrimidine derivatives, the use of the pyridylpyrimidine derivatives as pharmaceutically active agents, especially for the prophylaxis and/or treatment of prion infections and prion diseases, as well as compositions containing at least one pyridylpyrimidine derivative and/or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and methods for preventing and/or treating prion infections and prion diseases. Furthermore, human cellular protein kinases, phosphatases and cellular signal transduction molecules are disclosed as targets for detecting, preventing and/or treating prion infections and diseases, especially BSE, vCJD, or CJD. Background of the invention Pyridylpyrimidine derivatives are known from Prions are infectious agents which do not have a nucleic acid genome. It seems that a protein alone is the infectious agent. A prion has been defined as "small proteinaceous infectious particle which resists inactivation by procedures that modify nucleic acids". The discovery that proteins alone can transmit an infectious disease has come as a considerable surprise to the scientific community. Prion diseases are often called "transmissible spongiform encephalopathies", because of the post mortem appearance of the brain with large vacuoles in the cortex and cerebellum. Probably most mammalian species develop these diseases. Prion diseases are a group of neurodegenerative disorders of humans and animals and the prion diseases can manifest as sporadic, genetic or infectious disorders. Examples for prion diseases acquired by exogenous infection are the Bovine spongiform encephalitis (BSE) of cattle and the new variant of Creutzfeld-Jakob disease (vCJD) caused by BSE. Further examples include kuru, Gerstmann-Sträussler-Scheinker disease of humans as well as scrapie of animals. For many years, the prion diseases were thought to be caused by viruses despite intriguing evidence to the contrary. The unique characteristic common to all of these disorders, whether sporadic, dominantly inherited, or acquired by infection, is that they involve the aberrant metabolism of the prion protein (PrP). In many cases, the cellular prion protein (PrP These prion diseases in animals and humans have a long incubation period and a long clinical course, and are always fatal leading via decerebration to death within an average period of 7 months (CJD). Neuropathological features consist of neuronal vacuolization, neuronal death and gliosis with hyperastrocytosis. The precise diagnosis of transmissible neurodegenerative diseases can be established only by the examination of the central nervous system after biopsy or autopsy. Clinical symptoms of the disease are progressive dementia, myoclonus and prominent ataxia with the additional clinical features of dysautonomia and delirious psychomotor excitement and with relatively preserved verbal responses. Between 1980 and, roughly, 1996, about 750,000 cattle infected with BSE were slaughtered for human consumption in Great Britain ( Recent findings demonstrate that the pathogenic PrP The medical need in prion diseases today can be clearly defined as the establishment of a diagnostic system, that can detect the disease as early as possible in living humans and/or animals, to estimate the medical need for the treatment in the future and to identify the infected animals to remove them from the food chain. The medical need for prion diseases in the future (approximately starting in 5-10 years) will be medical treatment that inhibits the disease symptoms, the manifestation and/or progression of the disease. Compounds having the general formula (I):  Use of a compound having the general formula (I):  Use of a compound having the general formula (I):  Use of a compound according to claim 2 or 3 for the prophylaxis and/or treatment of prion infections and/or diseases induced by prion infection. Use of a compound according to any one of claims 2 - 4 wherein R represents hydrogen. Use of a compound according to any one of claims 2 - 5 wherein Z represents ―NH―CO―X or ―NH―SO Use of a compound according to any one of claims 2 - 6 wherein Y, Y', Y" are independently of each other -H, -F, -Cl, -CH Use of a compound according to claim 2 or 3 wherein the compound is selected from the group comprising:  Use according to claim 8 wherein the compound is 4-(4-Methylpiperazin-1-ylmethyl)- Use of a compound recited in any one of claims 2 - 9 and/or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof for the manufacture of a pharmaceutical composition for prophylaxis and/or treatment of prion infections and/or diseases induced by prion infection and/or neurodegenerative diseases. Use according to claim 4 or 10 wherein said prion infection and/or disease is selected from the group comprising Scrapie, TME, CWD, BSE, CJD, vCJD, GSS, FFI, Kuru, and Alpers Syndrome. Use according to claim 11 wherein said prion infection is BSE, vCJD, or CJD. Use of a compound recited in any one of claims 2 - 9 as an inhibitor for at least one human cellular protein kinase, phosphatase or cellular signal transduction molecule selected from the group comprising FGF-R1, Tkt, Abl, clk1, MKK7, LIMK-2, CaM-KI, JNK2, CDC2, PRK, PTP-SL, PTP-zeta, HSP86, GPIR-1. Use of a compound according to any one of claims 2 to 13 wherein the compound of the general formula (I) and/or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof is administered in a dosage corresponding to an effective concentration in the range of 0.01 - 50 µM. Pharmaceutical composition comprising at least one compound recited in any one of claims 2 - 9 as an active ingredient, together with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carrier(s), excipient(s) or diluents. Method for preventing and/or treating infections and/or diseases in an individual which comprises administering to the individual an amount of at least one compound recited in claims 2 - 9 and/or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof effective to prevent and/or treat said infections and/or diseases. Method for preventing and/or treating prion infections and/or prion diseases induced by prion infections in an individual which comprises administering to the individual an amount of at least one compound recited in any one of claims 3 to 8 and/or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof effective to prevent and/or treat said prion infection and/or disease. Method for preventing and/or treating prion infections and/or prion diseases induced by prion infections in an individual which comprises administering to the individual an amount of at least one compound recited in claim 8 and/or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof effective to prevent and/or treat said prion infection and/or disease. Method for detecting prion infections and/or prion diseases in an individual comprising:  Method according to claim 19 wherein said sample comprises blood, milk, saliva, sputum, excrement, urine, spinal cord liquid, liquor, lachrymal gland liquid, biopsies and all other samples that can be taken from a living animal or human for diagnostic purposes. Method for detecting prion infections and/or prion diseases in cells, cell cultures and/or cell lysates comprising:  Method for preventing and/or treating prion infections and/or prion diseases in an individual comprising the step of administering a pharmaceutically effective amount of at least one pharmaceutically active agent which inhibits at least partially the activity of at least one human cellular protein kinase, phosphatase or cellular signal transduction molecule selected from the group comprising FGF-R1, Tkt, Abl, clk1, MKK7, LIMK-2, CaM-KI, JNK2, CDC2, PRK, PTP-SL, PTP-zeta, HSP86, GPIR-1, or which inhibits at least partially the production of at least one human cellular protein kinase, phosphatase or cellular signal transduction molecule selected from the group comprising FGF-R1, Tkt, Abl, clk1, MKK7, LIMK-2, CaM-KI, JNK2, CDC2, PRK, PTP-SL, PTP-zeta, HSP86, GPIR-1. Method for preventing and/or treating prion infections and/or prion diseases in cell or cell cultures comprising the step of administering a pharmaceutically effective amount of at least one pharmaceutically active agent which inhibits at least partially the activity of at least one human cellular protein kinase, phosphatase or cellular signal transduction molecule selected from the group comprising FGF-R1, Tkt, Abl, clk1, MKK7, LIMK-2, CaM-KI, JNK2, CDC2, PRK, PTP-SL, PTP-zeta, HSP86, GPIR-1, or which inhibits at least partially the production of at least one human cellular protein kinase, phosphatase or cellular signal transduction molecule selected from the group comprising FGF-R1, Tkt, Abi, clk1, MKK7, LIMK-2, CaM-KI, JNK2, CDC2, PRK, PTP-SL, PTP-zeta, HSP86, GPIR-1. Method for regulating the production of prions in an individual comprising the step of administering a pharmaceutically effective amount of at least one pharmaceutically active agent which inhibits at least partially the activity of at least one human cellular protein kinase, phosphatase or cellular signal transduction molecule selected from the group comprising FGF-R1, Tkt, Abl, clk1, MKK7, LIMK-2, CaM-KI, JNK2, CDC2, PRK, PTP-SL, PTP-zeta, HSP86, GPIR-1, or which inhibits at least partially the production of at least one human cellular protein kinase, phosphatase or cellular signal transduction molecule selected from the group comprising FGF-R1, Tkt, Abl, clk1, MKK7, LIMK-2, CaM-KI, JNK2, CDC2, PRK, PTP-SL, PTP-zeta, HSP86, GPIR-1. Method for regulating the production of prions in cells comprising the step of administering a pharmaceutically effective amount of at least one pharmaceutically active agent which inhibits at least partially the activity of at least one human cellular protein kinase, phosphatase or cellular signal transduction molecule selected from the group comprising FGF-R1, Tkt, Abl, clk1, MKK7, LIMK-2, CaM-Kl, JNK2, CDC2, PRK, PTP-SL, PTP-zeta, HSP86, GPIR-1, or which inhibits at least partially the production of at least one human cellular protein kinase, phosphatase or cellular signal transduction molecule selected from the group comprising FGF-R1, Tkt, Abl, clk1, MKK7, LIMK-2, CaM-KI, JNK2, CDC2, PRK, PTP-SL, PTP-zeta, HSP86, GPIR-1. A monoclonal or polyclonal antibody that binds to a human cellular protein kinase, phosphatase or a cellular signal transduction molecule selected from the group comprising FGF-R1, Tkt, Abl, clk1, MKK7, LIMK-2, CaM-KI, JNK2, CDC2, PRK, PTP-SL, PTP-zeta, HSP86, and GPIR-1. Method according to any one of claims 19 - 25, wherein the agent is a monoclonal or polyclonal antibody which binds to a human cellular protein kinase, phosphatase or a cellular signal transduction molecule selected from the group comprising FGF-R1, Tkt, Abl, clk1, MKK7, LIMK-2, CaM-KI, JNK2, CDC2, PRK, PTP-SL, PTP-zeta, HSP86, and GPIR-1. Method according to any one of claims 19 - 25, wherein the agent is at least one compound of the general formula (I) and/or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. Method according to any one of claims 16 - 25, wherein the agent is 4-(4-Methylpiperazin-1-ylmethyl)- Method according to claim 28 wherein the compound of the general formula (I) and/or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof is administered in a dosage corresponding to an effective concentration in the range of 0.01 - 50 µM. Method for detecting compounds useful for the prophylaxis and/or treatment of prion infections and/or diseases comprising:  Method for preventing and/or treating prion infections and/or diseases in an individual comprising the step of administering a pharmaceutically effective amount of at least one pharmaceutically active agent which activates at least partially the activity of at least one human cellular protein kinase, phosphatase or cellular signal transduction molecule selected from the group comprising FGF-R1, Tkt, Abl, clk1, MKK7, LIMK-2, CaM-KI, JNK2, CDC2, PRK, PTP-SL, PTP-zeta, HSP86, and GPIR-1, or which activates or stimulates the production of at least one human cellular protein kinase, phosphatase or cellular signal transduction molecule selected from the group comprising FGF-R1, Tkt, Abl, clk1, MKK7, LIMK-2, CaM-KI, JNK2, CDC2, PRK, PTP-SL, PTP-zeta, HSP86, and GPIR-1. Method for regulating the production of prions in an individual comprising the step of administering an individual a pharmaceutically effective amount of at least one pharmaceutically active agent wherein said agent activates at least partially the activity of at least one human cellular protein kinase, phosphatase or ceiiuiar signal transduction molecule selected from the group comprising FGF-R1, Tkt, Abl, clk1, MKK7, LIMK-2, CaM-KI, JNK2, CDC2, PRK, PTP-SL, PTP-zeta, HSP86, and GPIR-1, or wherein said agent at least partially activates or stimulates the production of at least one human cellular protein kinase, phosphatase or cellular signal transduction molecule selected from the group comprising FGF-R1, Tkt, Abl, clk1, MKK7, LIMK-2, CaM-KI, JNK2, CDC2, PRK, PTP-SL, PTP-zeta, HSP86, and GPIR-1. Method for regulating the production of prions in cells comprising the step of administering the cells a pharmaceutically effective amount of at least one pharmaceutically active agent wherein said agent activates at least partially the activity of at least one human cellular protein kinase, phosphatase or cellular signal transduction molecule selected from the group comprising FGF-R1, Tkt, Abl, clk1, MKK7, LIMK-2, CaM-Kl, JNK2, CDC2, PRK, PTP-SL, PTP-zeta, HSP86, and GPIR-1, or wherein said agent at least partially activates or stimulates the production of at least one human cellular protein kinase, phosphatase or cellular signal transduction molecule selected from the group comprising FGF-R1, Tkt, Abl, clk1, MKK7, LIMK-2, CaM-Kl, JNK2, CDC2, PRK, PTP-SL, PTP-zeta, HSP86, and GPIR-1 in the cells. Method for regulating the expression of at least one human cellular protein kinase, phosphatase or cellular signal transduction molecule selected from the group comprising FGF-R1, Tkt, Abl, clk1, MKK7, LIMK-2, CaM-Kl, JNK2, CDC2, PRK, PTP-SL, PTP-zeta, HSP86, and GPIR-1 in an individual comprising the step of administering the individual a pharmaceutically effective amount of at least one pharmaceutically active agent wherein said agent inhibits at least partially the transcription of DNA or the translation of RNA. Method for regulating the expression of at least one human cellular protein kinase, phosphatase or cellular signal transduction molecule selected from the group comprising FGF-R1, Tkt, Abl, clk1, MKK7, LIMK-2, CaM-KI, JNK2, CDC2, PRK, PTP-SL, PTP-zeta, HSP86, and GPIR-1 in the cells comprising the step of administering the cells a pharmaceutically effective amount of at least one pharmaceutically active agent wherein said agent inhibits at least partially the transcription of DNA or the translation of RNA. Oligonucleotide that binds to the DNA or RNA encoding a human cellular protein kinase, phosphatase or a cellular signal transduction molecule selected from the group comprising FGF-R1, Tkt, Abl, clk1, MKK7, LIMK-2, CaM-KI, JNK2, CDC2, PRK, PTP-SL, PTP-zeta, HSP86, and GPIR-1. Method according to claim 22, 23, 24, 25, 35 or 36 wherein the agent is a oligonucleotide which binds to the DNA and/or RNA encoding a human cellular protein kinase, phosphatase or a cellular signal transduction molecule selected from the group comprising FGF-R1, Tkt, Abl, clk1, MKK7, LIMK-2, CaM-Kl, JNK2, CDC2, PRK, PTP-SL, PTP-zeta, HSP86, and GPIR-1. Method according to claims 16, 17, 18, 19, 22, 24, 32, 33, or 35 wherein said individual is a human or ruminant. Method according to any one of claims 17, 18, 19, 21, 22, 23, 31, or 32 wherein said prion infection and/or prion disease is selected from the group comprising Scrapie, TME, CWD, BSE, vCJD, CJD, GSS, FFI, Kuru, and Alpers Syndrome. Method according to claim 40 wherein said prion infection and/or prion disease is BSE, vCJD, or CJD. A solid support useful for detecting prion infections and/or diseases in an individual, the solid support comprising an immobilized oligonucleotide, wherein said oligonucleotide is capable of detecting activity of at least one human cellular protein kinase, phosphatase or cellular signal transduction molecule selected from the group comprising FGF-R1, Tkt, Abl, clk1, MKK7, LIMK-2, CaM-KI, JNK2, CDC2, PRK, PTP-SL, PTP-zeta, HSP86, and GPIR-1. A solid support useful for detecting prion infections and/or diseases in cells, the solid support comprising an immobilized oligonucleotide, wherein said oligonucleotide is capable of detecting activity of at least one human cellular protein kinase, phosphatase or cellular signal transduction molecule selected from the group comprising FGF-R1, Tkt, Abl, clk1, MKK7, LIMK-2, CaM-KI, JNK2, CDC2, PRK, PTP-SL, PTP-zeta, HSP86, and GPIR-1. A solid support useful for screening compounds useful for the prophylaxis and/or treatment of prion infections and/or diseases in an individual, the solid support comprising at least one immobilized oligonucleotide, wherein said oligonucleotide encodes one human cellular protein kinase, phosphatase or cellular signal transduction molecule selected from the group comprising FGF-R1, Tkt, Abl, clk1, MKK7, LIMK-2, CaM-KI, JNK2, CDC2, PRK, PTP-SL, PTP-zeta, HSP86, and GPIR-1. A solid support useful for screening compounds useful for the prophylaxis and/or treatment of prion infections and/or diseases in an individual, the solid support comprising at least one immobilized human cellular protein kinase, phosphatase or cellular signal transduction molecule selected from the group comprising FGF-R1, Tkt, Abl, clk1, MKK7, LIMK-2, CaM-KI, JNK2, CDC2, PRK, PTP-SL, PTP-zeta, HSP86, and GPIR-1. Composition useful for the prophylaxis and/or treatment of an individual afflicted with prions comprising at least one agent capable of inhibiting at least partially the activity of at least one human cellular protein kinase, phosphatase or cellular signal transduction molecule selected from the group comprising FGF-R1, Tkt, Abl, clk1, MKK7, LIMK-2, CaM-KI, JNK2, CDC2, PRK, PTP-SL, PTP-zeta, HSP86, and GPIR-1. Composition useful for the prophylaxis and/or treatment of an individual afflicted with prions comprising at least one agent capable of activating or stimulating at least partially the activity of at least one human cellular protein kinase, phosphatase or cellular signal transduction molecule selected from the group comprising FGF-R1, Tkt, Abl, clk1, MKK7, LIMK-2, CaM-KI, JNK2, CDC2, PRK, PTP-SL, PTP-zeta, HSP86, and GPIR-1. Composition according claim 46 or 47, wherein the agent is at least one compound of the general formula (I) and/or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. <seperator>EP-1433505-A1<id_sep>classA43class subgroupA63C17slash04subgroup subclassA63Csubclass subgroupA63C17slash06subgroup classA63class subclassA43Bsubclass subgroupA43B5slash16subgroup sectionAsection Improved skate structure with one-piece frame A skate structure, particularly a roller skate with in-line wheels, comprising a frame (10) for supporting the wheels (14), a rigid sole (16) for supporting a first shoe body (30), a rigid cradle (34) for lateral and rear support of said first shoe body (30), an oscillating collar (40) for supporting the user's leg, and a removable, soft second shoe body (50) inserted into the said first shoe body (30) and designed to hold the user's foot. The frame (10), the rigid sole (16) and the rigid support structure (34) constitute an integral structure made in a single piece. A rigid toe-piece (18) may also be part of the one-piece structure, or, alternatively, may be produced as a separate component to be attached to the first shoe body (30') or to the one-piece structure before final assembly of the skate (Figure 1).  This invention relates to an improved skate structure, particularly a roller-skate structure with a plurality of in-line wheels. There are several types of roller skates with in-line wheels. These are typically comprised of a plurality of components, substantially centred on a rigid frame onto which the wheels are mounted, and on which in turn a shoe body is mounted to hold the user's foot. The structure must meet strict functional and safety requirements, and its components must be of easy construction and assembly. To meet these requirements, many different roller-skate structures have been developed, some of which are made up of a relatively high number of components, and are therefore very complex. For example, it is clear that the shoe body must have a certain degree of intrinsic stiffness and must be firmly attached to the frame to be able to transmit to it, and to the wheels, the thrust imparted by the user, and also be able to withstand external stresses. This determines the need to have rigid parts such as: a) a sole for the shoe body, as part of the shoe body itself or as part of the frame or produced as a separate component to be fixed to the sole and/or frame; b) a cradle at least at the rear of the structure to assist the shoe body in withstanding lateral forces and twisting forces that the user's foot is subject to, and which can also be attached to the frame and/or sole; c) a toe-piece to reinforce the front part of the shoe body and withstand frontal stresses, also produced separately or as a single-piece with one of the above-mentioned parts. Whatever the structure, it is clear that a large number of detachable or fixed fastening means are required to assemble the various components, including holes, slots or other coupling means. The stiffness of the shoe body deriving from such a structure often compromises its comfort, and for this reason there is usually a second inner shoe body, in soft material, which is inserted inside the first shoe body, and this second shoe body holds the user's foot. Lastly, there is also usually an oscillating leg section or collar fixed to the rigid skate structure, giving improved support for the user's leg around the calf. It is clear that a roller-skate structure comprising all of the above components is quite complex, and that the manufacture or at least assembly of such a skate is also complex, and that as a result the end cost of the product may be quite high. End product lightness, which would be very desirable, may also be compromised by the large number of components and their relative fastening means. In addition, the large number of attachments needed means that particular attention must be paid to ensure that safety is not compromised. EP 551 704 A2 discloses a roller skate for use with a detachable shoe. This kind of skate is designed for students that commute to schools, and obviates the need for the skater to carry additional shoes for off-skate wear. However, shoes that can be detached by the skater to be used as normal shoes for walking can hardly be fastened strongly enough to the skate structure. Moreover, such shoes are enough flexible to provide a good degree of comfort when used to walk, but for this reason do not ensure enough rigidity as it would be desirable when used as a skate shoe. Skate structure, particularly a roller-skate with in-line wheels, comprising a frame (10) for supporting the wheels (14), a rigid sole (16) for supporting a first shoe body (30, 30', 30"), a rigid cradle (34) for lateral and rear support of said first shoe body, a collar (40) for supporting the user's leg, and a removable, soft second shoe body (50) inserted into the said first shoe body (30, 30', 30") and designed to hold the user's foot, characterised in that said frame (10), said rigid sole (16) and said rigid cradle (34) are an integrally formed structure made in one piece, and said first shoe body (30, 30', 30") is permanently fastened to said rigid sole (16). Skate structure according to claim 1, comprising a rigid toe-piece (18) integral with said rigid sole (16) and placed at the front of said structure, designed to be functionally coupled to the front portion of said first shoe body (30), characterised in that also said toe-piece (18) is integrally formed with said sole (16), said frame (10) and said cradle (34), thereby forming a single piece. Skate structure according to claim 1, characterised in that said first shoe body (30') includes a rigid toe-piece (18') and the unit formed by said first shoe body (30') and said rigid toe-piece (18') is fixed to said one-piece structure comprising said frame (10), said rigid sole (16) and said support structure (34). Skate structure according to claim 3, characterised in that said unit comprising said first shoe body (30') and said rigid toe-piece (18') is fixed to said one-piece structure by adjustable fastening means. Skate structure according to claim 1, characterised in that it also comprises a rigid toe-piece (18") made as a separate component, designed to be functionally coupled to said one-piece structure or to said first shoe body (30") before final assembly of the skate structure. Skate structure according to claim 1, characterised in that said first shoe body (30, 30', 30") is formed with an upper edge (46) cut at the rear towards the bottom, said rigid cradle (34) has side openings (38) in a position corresponding essentially to the user's ankles, and said second shoe body (50) has semi-rigid cushioning pads (54) in a position corresponding to said openings (38) on said rigid cradle (34), said semi-rigid cushioning pads (54) being engaged in said openings (38) as a means of fixing said second shoe body (50) to said rigid cradle (34) and thus to said one-piece structure. Skate structure according to claim 1, characterised in that said collar (40) is pivotally fixed to said rigid cradle (34) by means of pins (42) on the upper part of each side of said cradle. <seperator>EP-1909072-A1<id_sep>subgroupG01C21slash36subgroup sectionGsection subgroupG01C21slash34subgroup classG01class subclassG08Gsubclass subgroupG08G1slash0968subgroup subclassG01Csubclass classG08class Vehicle electronic system coupling a mobile navigation module to a vehicle audio module A vehicle security system (48) is provided, which comprises a mobile navigation module (11) and a vehicle security module (41) controlling an access to the vehicle. The mobile navigation module (11) is configured to couple to the vehicle security module (41) for controlling the vehicle security module (41) in such a way that the mobile navigation module (11) is used for enabling and disabling access to the vehicle.  This invention relates to a vehicle electronic system coupling a mobile navigation module to a vehicle audio module and a method for coupling a mobile navigation module to a vehicle audio module. In particular, the present invention relates to a vehicle security system wherein the mobile navigation module coupled to a vehicle security module controls the vehicle security module in such a way that the mobile navigation module is used for enabling and disabling access to the vehicle. Navigation systems are widely used for hiking, biking, city sightseeing, vehicle navigation, and so on. Special navigation systems for each kind of the above-mentioned applications are designed and available in the market, for example handheld mobile navigation systems for hiking, navigation systems mountable on a bicycle for biking, and navigation systems built into vehicles for vehicle navigation. A vehicle navigation system fixedly installed in a vehicle cannot be used by the user outside the vehicle, for example during hiking, and cannot be taken into another vehicle, for example from a private car into a rental car, and therefore many people additionally use a mobile navigation system, which can be used outside a vehicle, for example for biking and hiking, and which can also be used inside a vehicle. When used inside a vehicle, power supply cables need to be mounted from for example the cigarette lighter to the mobile navigation device, which usually leads to obstruction of displays or buttons, and the mobile navigation device is fixed in a special support at the dashboard or the windshield which also leads to obstruction of displays or buttons or the sight out of the windshield. Furthermore, the audio output of the mobile navigation device, for example for routing commands, is in most cases not appropriate for a use inside a vehicle, especially when the vehicle audio system is also producing audio output. Finally, supporting the mobile navigation device on a support mounted at the dashboard or the windshield is in most cases not very aesthetic, destroying the interior design of the vehicle, and may cause a danger during an accident of the vehicle. Moreover, such a mobile navigation device is easily removable from the support of the vehicle. In case the user of the vehicle does not need the mobile navigation device outside the vehicle, the mobile navigation system is usually left in the support inside the vehicle and as mobile navigation devices are usually valuable devices, this attracts thieves to break open the car and to steel the mobile navigation device. On the other hand, when the user wants to protect the mobile navigation device from being stolen, he or she has to carry around not only the car keys and maybe a remote control or transponder for the centralized door locking of the vehicle, but also the mobile navigation device. Therefore, there is a need for an integration of a mobile navigation system into the vehicle's infrastructure, wherein the mobile navigation device is fixed at an appropriate position inside the vehicle, and integrated in the operating means of the vehicle, for example audio output and speech recognition input, and wherein the mobile navigation device is still operable as stand alone unit outside the vehicle. A vehicle security system (48) comprising:  The vehicle security system (48) according to claim 1, wherein enabling access to the vehicle comprises an unlocking of a door (44) of the vehicle and disabling access to the vehicle comprises a locking of the door (44) of the vehicle. The vehicle security system (48) according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the mobile navigation module (11) provides a key switch (37) for enabling access to the vehicle. The vehicle security system (48) according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the mobile navigation module (11) provides a key switch (38) for disabling access to the vehicle. The vehicle security system (48) according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the vehicle security module (41) is adapted to control a starting mechanism (45) of an engine (46) of the vehicle,  wherein the mobile navigation module (11) is configured to couple to the vehicle security module (41) for controlling the vehicle security module (41) in such a way that the mobile navigation module (11) is used for starting the engine (46) of the vehicle. The vehicle security system (48) according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the mobile navigation module (11) provides a key switch (39) for starting the engine (46) of the vehicle. The vehicle security system (48) according to any of the preceding claims, further comprising a distance detection unit (47) coupled to the vehicle security module (41) for determining a distance between the vehicle security module (41) and the mobile navigation module (11), wherein the vehicle security module (41) enables access to the vehicle when the mobile navigation module (11) is located within a predetermined distance to the vehicle security module (41). A vehicle electronic system (18) coupling a mobile navigation module (11) to a vehicle audio module (1), the vehicle electronic system (18) comprising:  The vehicle electronic system (18) according to claim 8, wherein the first control unit (16) receives data from the second operating unit (19), processes the data received from the second operating unit (19) and outputs data to the second operating unit (19). The vehicle electronic system (18) according to claim 8 or 9, wherein the second control unit (20) receives data from the first operating unit (15), processes the data received from the first operating unit (15) and outputs data to the first operating unit (15). The vehicle electronic system (18) according to any of claims 8-10, wherein the first and second couplers (9, 14) comprise an electrical connection, an optical connection, or a radio frequency connection for the signal and data exchange between the vehicle audio module (1) and the mobile navigation module (11). The vehicle electronic system (18) according to any of claims 8-11, said vehicle audio module (1) comprises a power supply (22) providing an electrical power supply (25) for the mobile navigation module (11) via the vehicle audio module (1) through the first and second couplers (9, 14). The vehicle electronic system (18) according to any of claims 8-12, wherein the mobile navigation module (11) comprises a rechargeable power supply (26) and the vehicle audio module (1) comprises charging means (27) for charging the rechargeable power supply (26), the rechargeable power supply (26) is recharged by the charging means (27), when the mobile navigation module (11) is coupled to the vehicle audio module (1). The vehicle electronic system (18) according to any of claims 8-13, wherein the first and second operating units (15, 19) each comprise a display (10, 13), a control button (2-7, 12), a speech control microphone and/or a loudspeaker (17). The vehicle electronic system (18) according to any of claims 8-14, wherein the mobile navigation module (11) comprises an access identifier (33) and the vehicle audio module (1) comprises an access identifier reader (34) and a means for verifying an access identifier (35), wherein, upon positive verification, the vehicle audio module (1) grants access to the vehicle and/or allows to start the vehicle. The vehicle electronic system (18) according to any of claims 8-15, wherein the vehicle audio module (1) comprises a sensor data receiving unit (29) connected to sensors (28) of the vehicle and transmitting sensor data retrieved from the vehicle to a positioning unit (30) of the mobile navigation module (11) for supporting the position determination of the positioning unit (30), when the mobile navigation module (11) is coupled to the vehicle audio module (1). The vehicle electronic system (18) according to claim 16, wherein the sensor data comprise the speed of the vehicle and/or the steering angle of the vehicle. The vehicle electronic system (18) according to any of claims 8-17, wherein the first coupler (9) comprises a detachable snap-in mechanism, the second coupler (14) comprises a counterpart of the detachable snap-in mechanism, and the coupling of the mobile navigation module (11) to the vehicle audio module (1) comprises the inserting of the mobile navigation module (11) into the detachable snap-in mechanism. The vehicle electronic system (18) according to any of claims 8-18, wherein the mobile navigation module (11) comprises a mobile audio player (21). The vehicle electronic system (18) according to any of claims 8-19, wherein the vehicle comprises a satellite antenna (32) connected to the vehicle audio module (1) for receiving RF signals with which the position of the vehicle can be determined and the signal and data exchange between the mobile navigation module (11) and the vehicle audio module (1) comprises the signals received from the satellite antenna (32). The vehicle electronic system (18) according to any of claims 8-20, wherein the first control unit (16) prioritizes the data to be output on the first and second operating units (15, 19), wherein data of higher priority suppresses data of lower priority. The vehicle electronic system (18) according to any of claims 8-21, wherein, upon detection that the mobile navigation module (11) is coupled to the vehicle audio module (1), audio data of the mobile navigation module (11) are output by the vehicle audio module (1) to the vehicle compartment. The vehicle electronic system (18) according to claim 22, wherein the audio data of the mobile navigation module (11) are transmitted from the second control unit (20) through the second coupler (14) and the first coupler (9) to the first control unit (16). The vehicle electronic system (18) according to claim 22 or 23, wherein the audio data of the mobile navigation module (11) are mixed with the audio signal of the vehicle audio module (1) by the first control unit (16) and then output by the vehicle audio module (1) to the vehicle compartment. The vehicle electronic system (18) according to any of claims 8-24, wherein, upon detection that the mobile navigation module (11) is coupled to the vehicle audio module (1), display data of the vehicle audio module (1) are displayed on a display (13) of the mobile navigation module (11). The vehicle electronic system (18) according claim 25, wherein the display data of the vehicle audio module (1) are transmitted from the first control unit (16) through the first coupler (9) and the second coupler (14) to the second control unit (20). The vehicle electronic system (18) according to any of claims 8-26, wherein the first operating unit (15) furthermore provides operating means capable for operating at least parts of the mobile navigation module (11). The vehicle electronic system (18) according claim 27, wherein the operating means comprise a control button (2-7) and/or a speech control microphone. The vehicle electronic system (18) according claim 27 or 28, wherein upon detection that the mobile navigation module (11) is coupled to the vehicle audio module (1), a signal generated upon operating the operating means is transmitted from the first control unit (16) through the first coupler (9) and the second coupler (14) to the second control unit (20). The vehicle electronic system (18) according to any of claims 8-29, wherein the vehicle electronic system (18) comprises the vehicle security module (41) according to any of claims 1-7. A method for enabling and disabling access to a vehicle, comprising the steps of:  The method according to claim 31, wherein enabling access to the vehicle comprises an unlocking of a door (44) of the vehicle and  disabling access to the vehicle comprises a locking of the door (44) of the vehicle. The method according to claim 31 or 32, wherein the vehicle security module (41) is adapted to control a starting mechanism (45) of an engine (46) of the vehicle, the method further comprises the step of  controlling the vehicle security module (41) by the mobile navigation module (11) in such a way that the mobile navigation module (11) is used for starting the engine (46) of the vehicle. The method according to any of claims 31-33, further comprising the steps of:  A method for coupling a mobile navigation module (11) to a vehicle audio module (1), the vehicle audio module (1) comprising:  The method according to claim 35,  wherein the first control unit (16) receives data from the second operating unit (19), processes the data received from the second operating unit (19) and outputs data to the second operating unit (19). The method according to claim 35 or 36,  wherein the second control unit (20) receives data from the first operating unit (15), processes the data received from the first operating unit (15) and outputs data to the first operating unit (15). The method according to any one of claims 35 to 37, wherein the mobile navigation module (11) comprises a rechargeable power supply (26) and the vehicle audio module (1) comprises charging means (27) for charging the rechargeable power supply (26), the method further comprises the step of, upon detection that the mobile navigation module (11) is coupled to the vehicle audio module (1), recharging the rechargeable power supply (26) by the charging means (27). The method according to any one of claims 35 to 38 wherein the mobile navigation module (11) comprises an access identifier (33) and the vehicle audio module (1) comprises an access identifier reader (34) and a means for verifying an access identifier (35), wherein the method further comprises  The method according to any one of claims 35 to 39, wherein the vehicle audio module (1) comprises a sensor data receiving unit (29) connected to sensors (28) of the vehicle and the method further comprises upon detection that the mobile navigation module (11) is coupled to the vehicle audio module (1):  The method according to any one of claims 35 to 40, further comprising the step of prioritizing the data to be output on the first and second operating units (15, 19), wherein data of higher priority suppresses data of lower priority. The method according to any one of claims 35 to 41, further comprising the step of, upon detection that the mobile navigation module (11) is coupled to the vehicle audio module (1), outputting of audio data of the mobile navigation module (11) by the vehicle audio module (1) to the vehicle compartment. The method according to claim 42, further comprising the step of mixing the audio data of the mobile navigation module (11) with the audio signal of the vehicle audio module (1). The method according to any one of claims 35 to 43, further comprising the step of, upon detection that the mobile navigation module (11) is coupled to the vehicle audio module (1), displaying of display data of the vehicle audio module (1) on a display (13) of the mobile navigation module (11). The method according to any one of claims 35 to 44, further comprising the steps of,  <seperator>EP-1696595-A2<id_sep>groupH04H1slash00group classH04class sectionHsection subgroupH04H60slash73subgroup subgroupH04H60slash37subgroup subgroupH04H40slash18subgroup subclassH04Hsubclass Mobile terminal and method for providing user interface using received terrestrial digital broadcasting data A mobile terminal for receiving terrestrial digital broadcasting data and a method thereof are provided. A digital broadcasting receiver receives digital broadcasting data corresponding to a frequency in response to a request for digital broadcasting corresponding to the frequency. A demodulator separates a main service channel (MSC) containing broadcasting data for subchannels and a fast information channel (FIC) providing information about the MSC from the digital broadcasting data. A multimedia portion reads and outputs the FIC, and outputs broadcasting data of a subchannel according to a predetermined control signal. A controller acquires analysis information by analyzing the FIC and configures a user interface menu for the subchannels of the MSC using the analysis information.  1. Field of the Invention The present invention relates generally to a mobile terminal, and in particular, to a mobile terminal and method for providing a user interface using received terrestrial digital broadcasting data. 2. Description of the Related Art Generally, digital broadcasting improves on traditional analog broadcasting by providing better services with high quality in image and sound. Digital broadcasting is classified into satellite digital broadcasting and terrestrial digital broadcasting. The main objective of the satellite digital broadcasting is to provide mobile services. It enables users to enjoy multi-channel multimedia broadcasting using portable receivers (e.g. mobile phones or Personal Digital Assistants (PDAs)) or vehicle receivers at anytime and location. The terrestrial digital broadcasting, which has its origin from Digital Audio Broadcasting (DAB), provides mobile multimedia broadcasting reception through the unused VHF channel 12. It is capable of delivering an ensemble of services that includes television, radio and data broadcasting.. Existing terrestrial providers operate one analog channel, whereas digital broadcasting providers operate a plurality of digital channels. In the terrestrial digital broadcasting, one channel is divided into three blocks, and it is expected that two video channels per block or one video channel and three to four audio channels per block will be created. The terrestrial digital broadcasting aims to provide free broadcasting, considering reception in vehicles. Several service providers plan to provide the terrestrial digital broadcasting in the near future. Along with the development of digital broadcasting technology and mobile communication technology in recent years, the public has shown an increasing interest in digital broadcasting services that enable viewing digital broadcasting during roaming, particularly in Digital Multimedia Broadcasting (DMB) supporting mobile multimedia broadcasting data through mobile terminals. Accordingly, there is a need for providing a user interface that enables efficient viewing of the terrestrial digital broadcasting over multiple channels through a mobile terminal. An object of the present invention is to substantially solve at least the above problems and/or disadvantages, and to provide a mobile terminal and method for enabling users to efficiently view terrestrial digital broadcasting. Another object of the present invention is to provide a mobile terminal and method for providing a user interface using received terrestrial digital broadcasting data. According to one aspect of the present invention, a digital broadcasting receiver receives digital broadcasting data corresponding to a frequency in response to a request for digital broadcasting corresponding to the frequency. A demodulator separates a main service channel (MSC) containing broadcasting data for subchannels and a fast information channel (FIC) providing information about the MSC from the digital broadcasting data. A multimedia portion reads and outputs the FIC, and outputs broadcasting data of a subchannel according to a predetermined control signal. A controller acquires analysis information by analyzing the FIC and configures a user interface menu for the subchannels of the MSC using the analysis information. It is preferred that the mobile terminal further includes a display for displaying the user interface menu configured by the controller and a memory for storing the analysis information. According to another aspect of the present invention, in a mobile terminal for receiving digital broadcasting data, a digital broadcasting receiver receives digital broadcasting data corresponding to a frequency in response to a request for digital broadcasting corresponding to the frequency. A demodulator separates an MSC containing broadcasting data for subchannels and an FIC providing information about the MSC from the digital broadcasting data. A multimedia portion acquires analysis information by analyzing the FIC, outputs the analysis information, and outputs broadcasting data of a subchannel according to a predetermined control signal. A controller configures a user interface menu for the subchannels of the MSC using the analysis information. A mobile terminal for receiving terrestrial digital broadcasting data, comprising:  The mobile terminal of claim 1, wherein the subchannels include at least one of a video channel, an audio channel and a data channel. The mobile terminal of claim 1, further comprising a display for displaying the user interface menu. The mobile terminal of claim 1, further comprising a memory for storing the analysis information. The mobile terminal of claim 1, wherein the analysis information includes at least on of an ensemble label, a service label, a service identifier (ID), a service data type, a service component ID, a subchannel ID and a subchannel data type. The mobile terminal of claim 1, wherein the demodulator includes a buffer for buffering the FIC. The mobile terminal of claim 1, wherein upon selection of a subchannel through the user interface menu, the controller controls the multimedia portion to output broadcasting data of the selected subchannel. The mobile terminal of claim 1, wherein upon selection of a subchannel through the user interface menu, the controller provides to the multimedia portion a signal indicating data type and ID of the selected subchannel. The mobile terminal of claim 7, wherein upon selection of a subchannel through the user interface menu, the controller provides to the multimedia portion a signal indicating data type and ID of the selected subchannel. The mobile terminal of claim 1, wherein upon receipt of a signal indicating data type and ID of a subchannel from the controller, the multimedia portion receives from the demodulator broadcasting data of the subchannel and outputs the broadcasting data. A mobile terminal for receiving digital broadcasting data, comprising:  The mobile terminal of claim 11, wherein the subchannels include at least one of a video channel, an audio channel and a data channel. The mobile terminal of claim 11, further comprising a display for displaying the user interface menu. The mobile terminal of claim 11, further comprising a memory for storing the analysis information. The mobile terminal of claim 11, wherein the analysis information includes at least one of an ensemble label, a service label, a service identifier (ID), a service data type, a service component ID, a subchannel ID and a subchannel data type. The mobile terminal of claim 11, wherein the demodulator includes a buffer for buffering the FIC. The mobile terminal of claim 11, wherein upon selection of a subchannel through the user interface menu, the controller controls the multimedia portion to output broadcasting data of the selected subchannel. The mobile terminal of claim 11, wherein upon selection of a subchannel through the user interface menu, the controller provides a signal indicating data type and ID of the selected subchannel to the multimedia portion. The mobile terminal of claim 17, wherein upon selection of a subchannel through the user interface menu, the controller provides a signal indicating data type and ID of the selected subchannel to the multimedia portion. The mobile terminal of claim 11, wherein upon receipt of a signal indicating data type and ID of a subchannel from the controller, the multimedia portion reads broadcasting data of the subchannel from the demodulator and outputs the broadcasting data. A mobile terminal for receiving digital broadcasting data, comprising:  The mobile terminal of claim 21, wherein the subchannels include at least one of a video channel, an audio channel and a data channel. The mobile terminal of claim 21, further comprising a display for displaying the user interface menu. The mobile terminal of claim 21, further comprising a memory for storing the analysis information under the control of the controller. The mobile terminal of claim 21, wherein the analysis information includes at least one of an ensemble label, a service label, a service identifier (ID), a service data type, a service component ID, a subchannel ID and a subchannel data type. The mobile tenninal of claim 21, wherein the demodulator includes a buffer for buffering the FIC. The mobile terminal of claim 21, wherein upon selection of a subchannel through the user interface menu, the controller controls the multimedia portion to output broadcasting data of the selected subchannel. The mobile terminal of claim 21, wherein upon selection of a subchannel through the user interface menu, the controller provides a signal indicating data type and ID of the selected subchannel to the multimedia portion. The mobile terminal of claim 27, wherein upon selection of a subchannel through the user interface menu, the controller provides a signal indicating data type and ID of the selected subchannel to the multimedia portion. The mobile terminal of claim 21, wherein upon receipt of a signal indicating data type and ID of a subchannel from the controller, the multimedia portion reads broadcasting data of the subchannel from the demodulator and outputs the broadcasting data. A method of configuring a user interface in a mobile terminal for receiving terrestrial digital broadcasting data, comprising the steps of:  The method of claim 31, wherein the subchannels include a video channel, an audio channel and a data channel. The method of claim 31, further comprising the step of displaying the user interface menu. The method of claim 31, further comprising the step of storing the FIC. The method of claim 31, further comprising the step of storing the analysis information. The method of claim 31, wherein the analysis information includes at least one of an ensemble label, a service label, a service identifier (ID), a service data type, a service component ID, a subchannel ID and a subchannel data type. The method of claim 35, wherein the analysis information includes an ensemble label, a service label, a service identifier (ID), a service data type, a service component ID, a subchannel ID and a subchannel data type. The method of claim 31, further comprising the step of, upon selection of a subchannel through the user interface menu, outputting broadcasting data of the selected subchannel. The method of claim 33, further comprising the step of, upon selection of a subchannel through the user interface menu, outputting broadcasting data of the selected subchannel. The method of claim 38, wherein the output step comprises the steps of:  The method of claim 40, wherein the subchannel information includes data type and ID of the subchannel. <seperator>EP-1677299-A2<id_sep>subgroupG11B20slash12subgroup subgroupG11B19slash12subgroup sectionGsection subclassG11Bsubclass groupG11B20slash00group classG11class Recording medium with copy protection indicating information and apparatus and methods for forming, recording, reproducing and restricting reproduction of the recording medium A recording medium is disclosed, comprising: a control information area including a plurality of control information units to control a recording or reproducing of data to be recorded or recorded on a recording medium, wherein at least first control information unit in order includes an identifier to indicate a presence of copy protection information in the recording medium, and the copy protection information is required for a copy protection system; and a data area where data is to be recorded or recorded.  1. TECHNICAL FIELD The present invention relates to a recording medium such as BD-ROM (Blu-ray Disc ROM), which includes copy protection indicating information and an apparatus and methods for forming, recording, reproducing, and restricting reproduction of illegally duplicated recording media. 2. BACKGROUND ART Recently, standardization of a new high-density optical disc, a rewritable Blu-ray disc (BD-RE: Blu-ray Disc-Rewritable), have been under development where large quantities of high quality video and audio data can be recorded. Once the standard of a BD-RE has been established, products adopting the new optical discs are expected to be commercially available in the near future. As illustrated in FIG. 1, a BD-RE has an inner hole, clamping area, transition area, BCA (Burst Cutting Area) area, and lead-in area, located in sequential order along radial direction. A data area and lead-out area reside in the center and outermost annulus of the disc, respectively. The lead-in area is partitioned into a first guard (Guard 1) area, PIC (Permanent Information & Control data) area, a second guard (Guard 2) area, Info 2 area, OPC (Optimum Power Calibration) area, etc. The first guard area and PIC area are pre-recorded areas, whereas the remaining lead-in areas, data area, and lead-out area correspond to rewritable areas which can be overwritten with new data. General information of a disc which needs to be permanently preserved may be recorded in the PIC area, which can be encoded in wobbled grooves of a track by HFM (High Frequency Modulation) method. HFM Grooves are modulated in the radial direction with a rather high bandwidth signal, to create a data channel for replicated information with sufficient capacity and data rate. As shown in FIG. 2, encoding data into wobbled groove can be performed by bi-phase modulation and thus recording. In this modulation method a bit with value 0 is represented by a transition at the start of the bit cell and a bit with value 1 is represented by a transition at the start and in the middle of the bit cell. The modulated bits are recorded on the disc by a deviation of the groove from its average centerline as indicated in the FIG.2. The length of each bit cell shall be 36T, where T corresponds to the length of a channel bit in the Rewritable data areas. Along with the development of a BD-RE, has been the development of a corresponding read-only disc, a.read-only Blu-ray disc (hereinafter, referred to as 'BD-ROM'). As shown in FIG. 3, the BD-ROM disc may include an inner area, clamping area, transition area, information area, and rim area. The main data of an audio/video (A/V) stream recorded in a data zone within an information area can be recorded with encryption with copy protection information (CPI) to prevent unauthorized copy. Various disc information (DI) about the disc, such as the type of a disc, may be recorded in the PIC area within the information area. When encrypted main data are recorded in the data zone, copy protection information (CPI) for decryption can also be recorded in PIC area. A recording medium, comprising:  The recording medium of claim 1, wherein the plurality of control information units are recorded on the control area in wobbled pattern of phase-modulated. The recording medium of claim 2, wherein the control area is a lead-in area of the recording medium. The recording medium of claim 3, wherein the recording medium is an optical disc, each control information unit includes a disc information containing at least disc type information, disc size information, disc structure information, and data zone allocation information. The recording medium of claim 4, wherein each control information unit includes information having at least same value each other. The recording medium of claim 1, wherein the copy protection information includes a key value for encrypting/decrypting a main data. The recording medium of claim 6, wherein the copy protection information is selectively or repeatedly recorded in other area of the recording medium. The recording medium of claim 6, wherein the identifier and the copy protection information are recorded respectively in a different area of the recording medium. The recording medium of claim 8, wherein the identifier indicates the presence of the copy protection information within one byte in the first control information unit. The recording medium of claim 8, wherein an area for recording the copy protection information is filled with value "00" if the identifier indicates the copy protection information is not present. The recording medium of claim 6, wherein the identifier and the copy protection information are recorded in a lead-in area of the recording medium, wherein the identifier is followed by the copy protection information. A method of recording data on a recording medium, comprising: The method of claim 12, wherein the step (b) records the plurality of control information units in a lead-in area of the recording medium. The method of claim 13, wherein the recording medium is an optical disc, each control information unit includes a disc information containing at least disc type information, disc size information, disc structure information, and data zone allocation information. The method of claim 14, wherein each control information unit includes information having at least same value each other. The method of claim 12, further comprising:  The method of claim 16, further comprising: The method of claim 17, wherein the step (d) records a value "00" in the area where the copy protection information is to be recorded, if the identifier indicates the copy protection information is not present. The method of claim 17, wherein the step (d) records the copy protection information repeatedly. The method of claim 12, wherein the step (b) records the identifier within one byte in the first control information unit, to indicate the presence of the copy protection information. <seperator>EP-1657334-A1<id_sep>subclassD04Hsubclass sectionBsection classB68class subgroupB29C70slash16subgroup subgroupB32B27slash32subgroup classB29class subgroupA61L15slash22subgroup classA61class subgroupD04H3slash14subgroup subgroupD04H3slash02subgroup subgroupB32B5slash22subgroup subgroupA61L15slash16subgroup classD04class subgroupB29C70slash10subgroup subgroupB32B5slash26subgroup subclassA61Lsubclass subclassB68Gsubclass subgroupB32B5slash02subgroup subclassD06Msubclass groupD04H13slash00group sectionDsection groupB68G7slash00group classD06class groupD06N7slash00group subclassD06Nsubclass subclassB32Bsubclass sectionAsection subclassB29Csubclass groupD06M17slash00group classB32class subgroupD04H3slash16subgroup Fabric There is disclosed a microfilamentous polymeric fabric (20) and products made from such fabric (20), such as garments and construction products. Several types of fabric are known, e.g. spunlaid webs, meltblown webs, and flashspun webs. Such products suffer from a number of problems. Accordingly the invention provides a "microfilamentous" polymeric fabric (20) having a weight of greater than around 15 g/m  The present invention relates to fabrics, particularly microfilamentous polymeric fabric, and more particularly, though not exclusively, protection products made from such fabric, e.g. garments such as workwear garments.  Several methods are known for making sheet materials. Three of the known methods are spinlaying, meltblowing and flashspinning, which provide correspondingly named products, these being termed spunlaid web, meltblown web and flashspun web. The spinlaying method provides a sheet of continuous filaments as a spunlaid web in which the filament thickness or diameter is in the region of around 20 µm. The filaments are formed by extrusion of molten polymer through a spinneret, i.e. melt extrusion. The filaments of the spunlaid web can be subsequently bonded together by any suitable technique (e.g. intermittent thermal calender bonding) to provide fabric integrity, and such results in a product known as a spunlaid nonwoven web or fabric or spunbonded web or fabric. The meltblowing method provides a meltblown web in which the filaments are not continuous, and form discontinuous fibres which are laid down as a microfibre web. This method provides the fibres by extrusion of molten polymer through a spinneret into a high velocity hot gas stream which causes the filament strands to stretch and break, resulting in discontinuous polymer strands, which are provided as individual fibres. The fibres of the meltblown web can be subsequently bonded together by any suitable technique to provide fabric integrity, and such results in a product known as a meltblown nonwoven web. The meltblown web and the meltblown nonwoven web can be described as a microfibrous web or microfibrous nonwoven web. The flashspinning method provides continuous filaments obtained from a solution of polymer in a solvent which is extruded through a spinneret. As the filaments emerge from the spinneret, the solvent evaporates so rapidly that the individual filaments are disrupted into a highly fibrillar form, which are then laid down as a flashspun web. The filaments can be subsequently bonded together by any suitable technique to provide fabric integrity, and such results in a product known as a flashspun nonwoven web. Protective fabrics, such as dust barrier fabrics are required to prevent dust particles, fluids or liquids, such as water and the like, passing through the fabric. Such protective fabrics are therefore liquid impermeable. Desirably, such protective fabrics should be breathable, which means that air and/or liquid (or moisture) vapour, e.g. water vapour, should be able to pass through the fabric. That is to say the fabric is air and/or liquid (or moisture) vapour permeable. The Applicant has found that nonwoven spunbond fabrics such as spunlaid nonwoven webs which are resistant to tearing and provide a high degree of air permeability, and which can be used as a single layer of fabric, are presently unsuitable as protective fabrics because the filament diameter, and resultant effective "pore" size, are too large to form an effective barrier, e.g. to fine dusts. Currently, nonwoven protective fabrics such as those provided in industrial coveralls, are formed from microfibrous nonwoven web made using a meltblowing technique to provide fabric having sufficiently small fibre diameter and resultant effective pore size to provide an effective barrier, e.g. to fine dusts, while also retaining a high degree of air and water vapour permeability. A microfilamentous polymeric spunlaid or spunbond fabric, wherein microfilaments of the fabric are melt extruded and are made substantially from polypropylene, and wherein the fabric is intermittently thermally bonded and has a weight of greater than around 30 g/m A fabric as claimed in claim 1, wherein the fabric has a weight of about 30 g/m A fabric as claimed in either of claims 1 or 2, wherein the fabric has a weight selected from substantially 30 g/m A microfilamentous polymeric fabric having a weight of greater than around 15 g/m A fabric as claim in any of claims 1 to 3 or claim 4, wherein the fabric is a protective fabric adapted to protect against particulate material such as dust and/or liquid. A fabric as claimed in claim 4, wherein the fabric has a weight of around 20 g/m A fabric as claimed in claim 4, wherein the fabric has a weight of about 15 g/m A fabric as claimed in claim 4, wherein the fabric has a weight selected from substantially 17 g/m A fabric as claimed in claim 4, wherein the microfilamentous polymeric fabric comprises a spunlaid fabric, which is a spunlaid nonwoven or spunbonded fabric. A fabric as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3 or claims 4 to 9, wherein the fabric is provided as a single sheet layer of fabric. A fabric as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3 or claims 4 to 9, wherein the fabric is provided as part of a multiple layer fabric. A fabric as claimed in claim 11, wherein the multiple layer fabric is provided by overlaying a plurality of single layer sheets which are or are not bonded together to provide a laminated fabric. A fabric as claimed in claim 11, wherein some sheets in the multiple layer fabric are bonded together while other sheets within the same fabric are not bonded together. A fabric as claimed in any of claims 11 to 13, wherein the sheet layers are provided with layers of sheet material, which are optionally fabrics which are not microfilamentous fabrics, disposed between sheets of microfilamentous fabric and/or located on an outermost surface or surfaces of the microfilamentous fabric. A fabric as claimed in any of claims 4 or claims 5 to 14 when dependent upon claim 4, wherein microfilaments of the fabric have been melt extruded. A fabric as claimed in any of claims 4 or claims 5 to 15 when dependent upon claim 4, wherein the fabric is made substantially from polypropylene. A fabric as claimed in any of claims 4 or claims 5 to 16 when dependent upon claim 4, wherein the fabric is intermittently thermally bonded such as by calender bonding. A fabric as claimed in any of claims 4 or claims 5 to 17, wherein the fabric has a weight greater than around 30 g/m A fabric as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3 or clams 4 to 18, wherein the polymer/polypropylene was prepared or made with a metallocene catalyst. An item of apparel or a garment, such as a workwear product, comprising a microfilamentous polymeric fabric such as a fabric as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3 or claims 4 to 19. An item of apparel or a garment as claimed in claim 20, wherein the item or garment is selected from a coverall garment, a suit, a hat, gloves, a mask or over-shoes. An item of apparel or a garment as claimed in claim 20, wherein the garment comprises a medical garment such as a modesty gown. An item of apparel or a garment as claimed in any of claims 20 to 22, wherein the item or garment protects a wearer from an environment in which the wearer is located, and/or the item or garment protects the environment from the wearer. A protective cover sheet, such as a medical drape, comprising a microfilamentous fabric as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3 or claims 4 to 19. An upholstery item or product or bedding item or product comprising a microfilamentous polymeric fabric such as a fabric as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3 or claims 4 to 19. An upholstery item or product or bedding item or product as claimed in claim 25, wherein the item or product is adapted for use in passenger transport applications such as a seat headrest. An upholstery item or product or bedding item or product as claimed in claim 25, wherein the item or product is a mattress cover or pillow cover. A floor covering material comprising a microfilamentous polymeric fabric such as a fabric as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3 or claims 4 to 19. A floor covering as claimed in claim 28, wherein the floor covering material is provided as a backing material for carpeting items such as carpet tiles, which optionally comprise a bitumen component. A construction product comprising a microfilamentous polymeric fabric such as a fabric as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3 or claims 4 to 19. A construction product as claimed in claim 30, wherein the construction product comprises a single layer product or a multiple layer product. A construction product as claimed in either of claims 30 or 31, wherein the construction product is adapted for use as a house wrap material, such as for wall or timber frame coverage, or as a roofing material, such as an under tile layment. A construction product as claimed in either of claims 30 or 31, wherein the construction product is adapted for use as a tarpaulin, scaffolding cover or in tenting. A construction product as claimed in any of claims 30 to 33, wherein the construction product includes at least one further layer of microfilamentous polymeric fabric to provide a laminated product. A construction product as claimed in any of claims 30 to 34, wherein the construction product includes at least one further layer of material which is not a microfilamentous polymer fabric, such as a strengthening layer of nonwoven or woven fabric, a film layer or a membrane layer. A construction product as claimed in any of claims 30 to 35, wherein the construction product is liquid/water impermeable. A construction product as claimed in any of claims 30 to 36, wherein the construction product is air and/or liquid vapour permeable. A construction product as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3 or claims 4 to 19, wherein the microfilamentous fabric comprises microfilaments having a yarn count linear density of around 1.5 dtex or less, 1.2 dtex or less, or 1.0 dtex or less, a dtex being the linear density expressed as the mass in grams of a 10,000 metre length of one filament. A construction product as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3 or claims 4 to 19, wherein the microfilamentous fabric comprises a plurality of fibres or filaments, the fibre or filament diameter being around 15 µm or less. A construction product as claimed in claim 39, wherein the fibre diameter is between about 9 µm and about 15 µm. A construction product as claimed in claim 39, wherein the fibre diameter is around 13 µm or less. A construction product as claims in claim 39, wherein the fibre diameter is around 11 µm. A construction product as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3, claims 4 to 19, or claims 38 to 42, wherein the microfilaments have a surface area of around 0.35m A construction product as claimed in any of claims 1 to 7, 4 to 19, or claims 38 to 43, wherein the fabric is provided as an unbonded spunlaid web, or as a bonded fabric, spunlaid nonwoven web, or spunbonded web. A construction product as claimed in claim 4, wherein the polymer(s) used to form the microfilamentous polymeric fabric is/are selected from polyethylene, polypropylene, polyesters and polyamides, either singly or in combination as mixtures or as copolymers with each other. A construction product as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3, claims 4 to 19 or claims 38 to 45, wherein the microfilamentous polymeric fabric is formed using a spunlaying process in which the polymer(s) is/are melted and extruded through spinnerets to form filaments as continuous strands which are pulled/stretched using high pressure air to form microfilaments, which are laid down on a belt to form a microfilamentous spunlaid web of fabric which is then bonded using a calender equipment to form a microfilamentous spunlaid nonwoven or microfilamentous spunbonded fabric. A construction product as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3, claims 4 to 19, or claims 38 to 46, wherein a polyolefin of the fabric is prepared using a metallocene based catalyst. A construction product as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3, claims 4 to 19, or claims 38 to 47, wherein bonding of a microfilamentous polymeric spunlaid fabric web to form the fabric is achieved by means of adhesive, solvent and/or thermal bonding. A construction product as claimed in claim 48, wherein a spunlaid web of the fabric is bonded autogenously by subjecting the spunlaid web to heat and/or pressure. A construction product as claimed in claim 49, wherein the bonding is achieved by passing the spunlaid web through a nip of a calender equipment. A construction product as claimed in any of claims 48 to 50, where the bonding is provided substantially continuous across the fabric or is intermittent, such as point bonding. A construction product as claimed in claim 51, wherein intermittent or point bonding comprises between about 5% and about 40% or 50% of the fabric surface area. A construction product as claimed in claim 51, wherein the intermittent or point bonding comprises between 14% and about 20% of the fabric surface area. A construction product as claimed in any of claims 51 to 53, wherein individual emboss points are shaped as diamonds, circles, ellipses, or ovals. An item of apparel or garment such as a workwear product, comprising a single layer of microfilamentous polymeric fabric, such as a fabric as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3, claims 4 to 19, or claims 38 to 54. An upholstery item or product, a bedding item or product, an absorbent product, a floor covering material, or a construction product, comprising a single layer of microfilamentous polymeric fabric, such as a fabric as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3, claims 4 to 19, or claims 38 to 54. Use of a microfilamentous polymeric fabric such as a fabric as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3, claims 4 to 19, or claims 38 to 54 in the manufacture of an item of apparel or garment, such as a workwear product. Use of a microfilament polymeric fabric, such as a fabric as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3, claims 4 to 19, or claims 38 to 54 in the manufacture of an upholstery item or product, a bedding item or product, an absorbent product, a floor covering material, or a construction product. <seperator>EP-1626105-A1<id_sep>classC23class subgroupC23C16slash30subgroup subgroupC23C16slash36subgroup subclassC23Csubclass sectionCsection subgroupC23C16slash06subgroup subgroupC23C16slash08subgroup groupC23C30slash00group subgroupC23C16slash40subgroup Surface-coated cermet cutting tool with hard coating layer having excellent chipping resistance in high-speed intermittent cutting work A surface-coated cermet cutting tool with a hard coating layer having excellent chipping resistance in a high-speed intermittent cutting work is provided. The surface-coated cermet cutting tool is formed by coating, on a surface of a tool substrate made of tungsten-carbide-based cemented carbide or titanium-carbonitride-based cermet, the hard-coating layer including the following upper and lower layers (a) and (b): (a) as the lower layer, a titanium compound layer having at least two layers of a titanium carbide layer, a titanium nitride layer, a titanium carbonitride layer, a titanium carbooxide layer, and a titanium oxycarbonitride layer, all of which are deposited by chemical vapor deposition, the titanium compound layer having a total average layer thickness of 3 to 20 µm, and (b) as the upper layer, an aluminum oxide layer having an average layer thickness of 1 to 15 µm, which is deposited by chemical vapor deposition. Here, one layer of the titanium compound layer as the lower layer (a) comprises a titanium carbonitride layer which has an average layer thickness of 2.5 to 15 µm and which indicates an atom sharing lattice point distribution graph in which the highest peak exists in Σ3 and a distribution ratio of the Σ3 to ΣN+1 ranges 60% to 80% in the atom sharing lattice point distribution graph showing the distribution ratio at which individual ΣN+1 occupy the total ΣN+1 (where the upper limit is 28 in relation to frequency) when a type of an atom sharing lattice point in which N lattice points (where N is an even number equal to or greater than 2 in an NaCl type face-centered cubic crystal structure) not sharing a constituent atom in the atom sharing lattice points exist is denoted by ΣN+1. The atom sharing lattice point distribution graph is obtained by using a field-emission scanning electron microscope to irradiate electron beams to individual crystal particles existing in a measuring range of a surface-polished plane and to measure a tilt angle formed by the normal lines of (001) plane and (011) plane as a crystal plane of the crystal particles, the crystal particles having an NaCl type face-centered cubic crystal structure in which constituent atoms including titanium, carbon, and nitrogen exist in the lattice points, calculating a distribution of lattice points (atom sharing lattice points) in which each constituent atom is shared with the crystal particles in an interface between adjacent crystal particles on the basis of the measured tilt angles.  The present invention relates to a surface-coated cermet cutting tool (hereinafter, referred to as a coated cermet tool) of which a hard coating layer exhibits excellent chipping resistance during high-speed intermittent cutting of steel, cast iron, and the like. Conventionally, a coated cermet tool is known which is generally formed by coating, on a surface of a substrate (hereinafter, generally referred to as a tool substrate) made of tungsten carbide (hereinafter, referred to as WC)-based cemented carbide or titanium carbonitride (hereinafter, referred to as TiCN)-based cermet, a hard coating layer including the following upper and lower layers (a) and (b): [Patent Document 1] Japanese Unexamined Patent Application Publication No. H6-31503 In recent years, the performance of a cutting tool has been remarkably enhanced, and demands for labor saving and energy saving in cutting work and cost reduction have been increased. Accordingly, the cutting work is more often carried out at a higher speed range. The conventional coated cermet tools generally present no problem when they are used in the continuous cutting or intermittent cutting of steel, cast iron, or the like under normal conditions. Specifically, when the conventional cutting tools are used in a high-speed intermittent cutting under the severest cutting condition, i.e., in the high-speed intermittent cutting in which mechanical impacts are repeatedly applied to the cutting edge at very short pitches, the titanium compound layer which is the lower layer of the hard-coating layer has high-temperature strength and the Al In view of the above-mentioned problems, paying attention to a TiCN layer constituting the titanium compound layer as a lower layer of the hard coating layer, that is, a TiCN layer which has high-temperature hardness and high-temperature strength greater than those of other layers constituting the titanium compound layer and which has, as shown in Fig. 1 (a), an NaCl type face-centered cubic crystal structure in which constituent atoms including titanium, carbon, and nitrogen exits in lattice points, respectively (Fig. 1 (b) shows a cross section by (011) plane), the inventors have conducted studies for improving the chipping resistance of the hard coating layer of the coated cermet tools and have obtained the following results described below. The research results of (a) to (c) described above have been obtained. The present invention has been reached based on the above-mentioned research results. According to the present invention, there is provided a surface-coated cermet cutting tool with a hard coating layer having excellent chipping resistance in a high-speed intermittent cutting work, the surface-coated cermet cutting tool being formed by coating, on a surface of a tool substrate made of tungsten-carbide-based cemented carbide or titanium-carbonitride-based cermet, the hard-coating layer including the following upper and lower layers (a) and (b): Next, the reason for limiting the numerical values of the layers constituting the hard coating layer of the coated cermet tool according to the present invention described above will be described below. A titanium compound layer itself has high-temperature strength and the hard coating layer has high-temperature strength due to the existence of the titanium compound layer. In addition, the titanium compound layer is firmly adhered to both of the tool substrate and the Al A surface-coated cermet cutting tool with a hard coating layer having excellent chipping resistance in a high-speed intermittent cutting work, the surface-coated cermet cutting tool being formed by coating, on a surface of a tool substrate made of tungsten-carbide-based cemented carbide or titanium-carbonitride-based cermet, the hard-coating layer including the following upper and lower layers (a) and (b):  <seperator>EP-1452567-A1<id_sep>groupC08K3slash00group subclassC08Ksubclass subgroupC08L81slash02subgroup groupC08L71slash00group subgroupC08K7slash14subgroup groupC08L81slash00group groupC08L23slash00group groupC08K9slash00group sectionCsection groupC08K5slash00group subgroupC08K5slash523subgroup groupC08L67slash00group subclassC08Lsubclass subgroupC08K9slash08subgroup groupC08L77slash00group subgroupC08L71slash12subgroup groupC08K7slash00group classC08class FLAME-RETARDANT RESIN COMPOSITION A flame-retardant resin composition comprises 10 to 300 parts by weight of a flame retardant (B) and 1 to 200 parts by weight of an inorganic filler (C) (a glass fiber and/or a glass flake), relative to 100 parts by weight of a base resin (A). The flame retardant (B) comprises a polyphenylene oxide-series resin and/or a polyphenylene sulfide-series resin (B1), a phosphoric ester (B2), and a nitrogen-containing cyclic compound (B3) (for example, a polyphosphate of an amino group-containing triazine compound). The inorganic filler (C) has been treated with a surface-treatment agent or sizing agent containing a novolak epoxy resin. Such a resin composition is useful for obtaining a shaped article which has been inhibited from dripping and to which flame retardancy is highly imparted. The present invention relates to a flame-retardant resin composition having an excellent effect on inhibiting dripping, and a shaped article formed with the composition. Among thermoplastic resins, a polyester-series resin, has excellent mechanical and electrical properties, weather resistance, water resistance, and resistance to chemicals and solvents. Therefore, the resin is used as an engineering plastic in various purposes such as electric or electronic device parts, mechanical device parts and automotive parts. While, the polyester-series resin is required to have improved mechanical properties and to be flame-retardant from the viewpoint of safety as the field of their uses expands. In general, there is known a method for rendering the polyester-series resin flame-retardant by adding a flame retardant composed of a halogen-containing compound or an antimony-containing compound to the resin. However, the halogen-containing flame retardant is not preferable for environmental reasons because the flame retardant sometimes generates a large amount of a dioxin-series compound on resolution caused by combustion. Therefore, there is proposed a method for rendering the polyester-series resin flame-retardant by using a polycarbonate-series resin and a phosphorus-containing compound as a halogen-free flame retardant. Japanese Patent Application Laid-Open No. 168297/1998 (JP-10-168297A) discloses a flame-retardant resin composition comprising a thermoplastic polyester resin, a polycarbonate-series resin, an organic phosphorus-series flame retardant, and a stabilized red phosphorus. Moreover, Japanese Patent Application Laid-Open No. 168295/1998 (JP-10-168295A) discloses a flame-retardant resin composition comprising a master batch composed of a polyester resin, a polycarbonate resin, a stabilized red phosphorus, and an olefinic resin. The halogen-free flame retardant does not comprise harmful halogens, however, it is inferior to a halogen-series flame retardant in flame retardancy, so that it is necessary to add a large amount of the flame-retardant. The addition of a large amount of the flame-retardant brings about bleeding out (blooming) and deterioration in mechanical properties of a resin. Therefore, it is difficult to improve flame retardancy, mechanical properties and formability (or moldability). On the other hand, there is also known a method for rendering the polyester-series resin flame-retardant by using a polyphenylene oxide resin and a phosphorus-containing compound. For example, Japanese Patent Application Laid-Open No. 47056/1985 (JP-60-47056A) discloses a thermoplastic resin composition in which a thermoplastic linear polyester resin, and a flame-retardant comprising a polyphenylene oxide resin, an organic phosphoric ester and a bromine-containing compound are blended. However, this method is not preferable for environmental reasons because of using a halogen-containing compound. Therefore, it is contemplated that flame retardancy is imparted to a polyester resin without using a halogen-containing compound. For example, Japanese Patent Application Laid-Open No. 504563/1994 (JP-6-504563A) describes a resin composition comprising a polybutylene terephthalate, a polyphenylene oxide, and a resorcinol diphosphate. However, the resin composition has only approximately V-2 rank based on Flammability test UL-94, and does not have enough flame retardancy. Moreover, burning of the resin composition brings about dripping. It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a flame-retardant resin composition in which dripping has been inhibited, and a shaped article formed with the same. It is another object of the present invention to provide a flame-retardant resin composition to which flame retardancy is imparted at a high level by using a halogen-free flame retardant without deteriorating properties of a base resin, and a shaped article formed with the same. A flame-retardant resin composition, which comprises a base resin (A), a flame retardant (B) and an inorganic filler (C), wherein the flame retardant comprises  A flame-retardant resin composition according to claim 1, wherein the inorganic filler (C) comprises at least one member selected from the group consisting of a glass fiber and a glass flake. A flame-retardant resin composition according to claim 1, wherein the amount of the surface-treatment agent or sizing agent is 0.01 to 5 parts by weight relative to 100 parts by weight of the inorganic filler. A flame-retardant resin composition according to claim 1, which further comprises a styrenic resin (D). A flame-retardant resin composition according to claim 1, wherein the base resin (A) comprises at least one thermoplastic resin selected from the group consisting of a polyester-series resin, a polyamide-series resin, an olefinic resin, an acrylic resin, and a vinyl-series resin. A flame-retardant resin composition according to claim 1, wherein the base resin (A) comprises a homo-or co-polyester having at least one unit selected from the group consisting of 1,4-cyclohexanedimethylene terephthalate, a C2-4alkylene terephthalate, and a C2-4 alkylene naphthalate. A flame-retardant resin composition according to claim 1, wherein the phosphoric ester (B2) comprises a condensed phosphoric ester, and the nitrogen-containing cyclic compound (B3) comprises at least one member selected from the group consisting of a polyphosphate of an amino group-containing triazine compound, and a polyphosphoric acid amide. A flame-retardant resin composition according to claim 1, wherein the proportions of the flame retardant (B) and the inorganic filler (C) are 10 to 300 parts by weight and 1 to 200 parts by weight, respectively, relative to 100 parts by weight of the base resin (A). A flame-retardant resin composition according to claim 1, wherein the flame retardant (B) comprises 10 to 500 parts by weight of the component (B1) (the polyphenylene oxide-series resin and the polyphenylene sulfide-series resin) and 0 to 1000 parts by weight of the nitrogen-containing cyclic compound (B3), relative to 100 parts by weight of the phosphoric ester (B2). A flame-retardant resin composition, which comprises:  A flame-retardant resin composition according to claim 1, which further comprises at least one flame-retardant auxiliary selected from the group consisting of a resinous flame-retardant auxiliary (E1), and an inorganic flame-retardant auxiliary (E2). A flame-retardant resin composition according to claim 11, wherein the resinous flame-retardant auxiliary (E1) comprises at least one aromatic resin selected from the group consisting of  A flame-retardant resin composition according to claim 1, which further comprises at least one additive selected from the group consisting of a fluorine-containing resin, a hindered phenol-series antioxidant, a phosphorus-containing stabilizer, an inorganic stabilizer, and a compound having a functional group reactive to an active hydrogen atom. A shaped article formed with a flame-retardant resin composition recited in claim 1. A shaped article according to claim 14, which is an electric or electronic device part, an office automation device part, a household electrical appliance part, an automotive part, or a mechanical part or machine element. <seperator>EP-1612844-A1<id_sep>subclassB08Bsubclass sectionBsection sectionHsection classH01class classB08class groupB08B3slash00group subclassH01Lsubclass subgroupB08B3slash04subgroup groupH01L21slash00group Self-draining edge wheel system and method Provided is a system and method to prevent the transfer of accumulated fluid to wafers during cleaning operations. Specifically, when a wafer is secured by a plurality of self-draining edge wheels, any fluid contacting the self-draining edge wheels is channeled away from the wafer towards a bottom surface of each of the self-draining edge wheels. The channeling occurs by manufacturing the bottom portions of the self-draining edge wheels to have different configurations. The different configurations enhance fluid channeling away from the wafer. To further prevent fluid from wetting a bottom surface of the self-draining edge wheels, an edge wheel dryer can be positioned proximately adjacent to at least one self-draining edge wheel to suction fluid away from the bottom surface by using a vacuum channel of the edge wheel dryer.   1. Field of the Invention The present invention relates to semiconductor fabrication, and more specifically, to a self-draining edge wheel for use in semiconductor wafer processing systems. 2. Description of the Related Art Semiconductor wafer fabrication operations are typically performed in a repetitive series of fabrication steps. For example, a series of fabrication steps include implantation, material deposition, photolithography, etching, and planarization. The series repeats until the semiconductor wafer is completely fabricated. However, the repetitive series of fabrication steps can produce residue that can remain on a surface of the semiconductor wafer. Residue includes particulates and other undesirable material that can contaminate the metallization lines and structures of the semiconductor wafer. Exemplary particulates can include, among many others, silica, silicon dust, silicate particulates, slurry residue, and metal flakes. To remove the residue, current semiconductor wafer processing systems include cleaning systems to clean the semiconductor wafers. Specifically, fluid is applied to the semiconductor wafer to wet any residue. Then, the fluid can be removed. However, any structure supporting the wafer at the edge may accumulate the fluid. The accumulated fluid may cause a body of fluid to form at the edge and the structure. Then, the accumulated fluid may recontaminate the semiconductor wafer by possibly reintroducing the particulates that were cleaned. Another possible problem may result from the accumulated fluid rewetting a dried semiconductor wafer. Specifically, after the semiconductor wafer has been dried, any accumulated fluid on the structure supporting the semiconductor wafer can reapply fluid to the dried semiconductor wafer. Thus, another operation may be required to completely dry the semiconductor wafer. In view of the foregoing, what is needed is a system and method for preventing the transfer of accumulated fluid on a wafer support structure to semiconductor wafers during a cleaning operation.  Broadly speaking, the present invention is a system and method for preventing the transfer of accumulated fluid to semiconductor wafers during a cleaning operation. Specifically, fluid can accumulate at a semiconductor wafer edge. The fluid at the semiconductor wafer edge transfers to a structure, such as an edge wheel supporting the semiconductor wafer edge. By configuring the edge wheel to drain the fluid and thereby prevent fluid accumulation, the fluid does not transfer to the semiconductor wafer being cleaned. It can be appreciated that the present invention can be implemented in numerous ways, such as a process, an apparatus, a system, or a device. Several inventive embodiments of the present invention are described below. In an embodiment of a method for processing a wafer, the method includes supporting a wafer with a plurality of edge wheels positioned peripherally around the wafer. The plurality of edge wheels are capable of rotating so as to rotate the wafer. The method also includes causing a fluid present on a surface of the wafer to move toward the plurality of edge wheels to reach an interface formed between an edge of the wafer and a surface of each of the plurality of edge wheels. Further, the method includes channeling the fluid contacting the plurality of edge wheels away from the interface, such that the channeling of the fluid is configured to prevent formation of a meniscus of the fluid at the interface. A method for processing a wafer, comprising:  The method of claim 1, wherein channeling of the fluid further includes guiding the fluid away from a bottom surface of each of the plurality of edge wheels with a fluid conductor. A method for processing a wafer, comprising:  The method of claim 3, wherein channeling of the fluid further includes guiding the fluid away from the bottom surface of each of the plurality of edge wheels with a fluid conductor. An edge wheel for processing a wafer, comprising:  The edge wheel of claim 5, wherein the bottom portion includes a plurality of openings configured to drain fluid to an internal chamber defined in the bottom portion. The edge wheel of claim 6, wherein the internal chamber further includes a drain. The edge wheel of claim 5, wherein the bottom portion includes a plurality of legs to channel fluid. The edge wheel of claim 5, wherein the bottom portion includes angled channels to channel fluid. The edge wheel of claim 5, wherein the bottom portion has cut out regions to channel fluid. The edge wheel of claim 5, wherein the bottom portion is coupled to a fluid conductor, the fluid conductor being configured to guide fluid away from a bottom surface of the bottom portion. The edge wheel of claim 5, wherein the top portion and the bottom portion are manufactured from a single block of material. The edge wheel of claim 5, wherein the top portion and the bottom portion are manufactured from separate blocks of material. A system for processing a wafer, comprising:  The system of claim 14, wherein the bottom portion includes a plurality of openings configured to drain fluid to an internal chamber defined in the bottom portion. The system of claim 15, wherein the internal chamber further includes a drain. The system of claim 14, wherein the bottom portion of the edge wheel includes a plurality of legs to channel fluid. The system of claim 14, wherein the bottom portion of the edge wheel includes angled channels to channel fluid. The system of claim 14, wherein the bottom portion has cut out regions to channel fluid. The system of claim 14, wherein the bottom portion of the edge wheel is coupled to a fluid conductor, the fluid conductor being configured to guide fluid away from a bottom surface of the bottom portion. A method for processing a wafer, comprising: A method for processing a wafer, comprising:  <seperator>EP-1429422-A1<id_sep>sectionHsection subgroupH01R12slash08subgroup sectionGsection classH01class subclassH01Rsubclass classG06class subclassG06Ksubclass groupG06K17slash00group groupH01R12slash00group subgroupH01R12slash12subgroup subgroupH01R12slash28subgroup subgroupH01R13slash639subgroup groupH01R24slash00group subgroupH01R12slash18subgroup subgroupH01R12slash24subgroup Connector allowing reduction in thickness of an apparatus to which the connector is to be mounted An insulator (31) has a base surface (33a) extending along a flat plane, a first insert portion (33) defined by the base surface and adapted to receive a first connection object (41) therein in a first direction (A) parallel to the base surface, and a second insert portion (35) placed parallel to the first insert portion on the flat plane and adapted to receive a second connection object (51) therein in a second direction (B) which is parallel to the base surface and different from the first direction. The conductive member has a first contacting portion (13) disposed over the base surface and adapted to be brought into contact with the first connection object in a third direction (C) perpendicular to the flat plane, a second contacting portion (23) disposed in the second insert portion and adapted to be brought into contact with the second connection object in the third direction, and a base plate portion (15) connected to the first and the second contacting portions and fixedly held by the insulator.  This application claims priority to prior Japanese application JP 2002-361234, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. This invention relates to a connector adapted to be mounted to an electronic or electric apparatus, such as a mobile telephone or a mobile terminal. Recently, a small-sized external memory device such as a SIM (Subscriber Identity Module) card, a MMC (MultiMedia Card), a SD (Secure Digital) card, and a memory stick is known and increasingly used. The external memory device of the type may be used with an electronic or electric apparatus, such as a mobile telephone and a mobile terminal, as a module for identification of a subscriber. Upon use, the external memory device is connected to the apparatus through a connector which is mounted to the electronic or electric apparatus together with various parts, such as electronic parts. The connector of the type is disclosed, for example, in JP 2000-260537 A (corresp. to US 6,234,810 B1) and JP 2000-36349 A (corresp. to US 6,231,394 B1). However, the connector disclosed in each of these publications is relatively large as compared with the electronic parts mounted to the electronic or electric apparatus and therefore inhibits the reduction in thickness of the electronic or electric apparatus. It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a connector which allows the reduction in thickness of an apparatus to which the connector is to be mounted. Other objects of the present invention will become clear as the description proceeds. According to an aspect of the present invention, there is provided a connector for connecting a first connection object of a flat shape to a second connection object of a flat shape. The connector comprises an insulator and a conductive member coupled to the insulator. The insulator includes a base surface extending along a flat plane, a first insert portion defined by the base surface and adapted to receive the first connection object therein in a first direction parallel to the base surface, and a second insert portion placed parallel to the first insert portion on the flat plane and adapted to receive the second connection object therein in a second direction which is parallel to the base surface and different from the first direction. The conductive member includes a first contacting portion disposed over the base surface and adapted to be brought into contact with the first connection object in a third direction perpendicular to the flat plane, a second contacting portion disposed in the second insert portion and adapted to be brought into contact with the second connection object in the third direction, and a base plate portion connected to the first and the second contacting portions and fixedly held by the insulator. According to another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a connector comprising a plurality of conductive first contacts to be connected to a first connection object having a flat shape and inserted in a first direction, a plurality of conductive second contacts to be connected to a second connection object having a flat shape and inserted in a second direction different from the first direction, the conductive second contacts being connected to the conductive first contacts, respectively, and an insulator holding the first and the second contacts, wherein each of the first contacts has a first contacting portion to be brought into elastic contact with a first mating contacting portion of the first connection object, each of the second contacts having a second contacting portion to be brought into elastic contact with a second mating contacting portion of the second connection object, the insulator having a first insert portion in which the first contacting portions are disposed so as to be brought into contact with the first mating contacting portions when the first connection object is inserted, and a second insert portion in which the second contacting portions are disposed so as to be brought into contact with the second mating contacting portions when the second connection object is inserted, the first insert portion having a base surface to face one surface of the first connection object provided with the first mating contacting portions when the first connection object is inserted, the first direction along which the first connection object is inserted being parallel to the base surface, the second direction along which the second connection object is inserted being parallel to the base surface, the second insert portion being formed at a position different from that of the first insert portion, the first and the second contacting portions being elastically displaceable in a third direction perpendicular to the base surface, the first and the second contacts being formed to be integral with each other. A connector for connecting a first connection object of a flat shape to a second connection object of a flat shape, the connector comprising:  The connector according to claim 1, wherein the conductive member further including:  The connector according to claim 1, wherein the insulator has a plate-shaped portion which is defined by the base surface and an opposite surface opposite to the base surface, the first insert portion being located at the plate-shaped portion. The connector according to claim 3, wherein the second insert portion is placed adjacent to the first insert portion on the flat plane. The connector according to claim 3, wherein the plate-shaped portion is provided a fixing portion used for fixing the connector to a fixing object. The connector according to claim 1, wherein the insulator is provided with a cover member which is cooperated with the base surface and is for defining the first insert portion therebetween. The connector according to claim 1, wherein the insulator is mounted to a circuit board, the conductive member having a terminal portion to be connected to the circuit board. The connector according to claim 1, wherein the first and the second directions are parallel and opposite each other. The connector according to claim 1, further comprising a slider coupled to the insulator and movable in the second direction for holding the second connection object to make the second connection object be brought into press contact with the second contacting portion. A connector comprising:  A mobile apparatus equipped with the connector according to any one of claims 1 through 10. <seperator>EP-1400280-A1<id_sep>subclassB01Jsubclass groupB01L3slash00group groupG01N37slash00group subgroupB01J3slash03subgroup sectionBsection subclassB01Lsubclass subgroupB01J3slash04subgroup classB01class groupB01J19slash00group sectionGsection classG01class groupB01J3slash00group subclassG01Nsubclass subgroupB01J3slash02subgroup Apparatus and method for operating a microreactor at high pressure A chemical processing apparatus (10) is disclosed. The apparatus (10) includes a pressure vessel (12) and a microreactor (20) disposed within the pressure vessel (12). The pressure vessel (12) is constructed and arranged to maintain the pressure vessel (12) and the microreactor (20) at elevated pressure when a chemical operation is performed within the apparatus (10). A method of operating a microreactor (20) at high pressure is also disclosed.   1. The present invention relates generally to the field of miniaturized chemical processing and/or analysis apparatus and more particularly, to the operation of microreactors at elevated pressure. 2. In order to effectively and efficiently analyze, process, and/or manufacture chemicals, it is generally necessary to precisely control a number of processing parameters, such as, but not limited to, temperature, pressure, mixing conditions, exposure conditions, and in some cases, conditions necessary to achieve separation of reaction products. Conventional chemical processing equipment typically holds a relatively large volume of materials and consequently has a relatively large volume to surface area ratio. When reactions occur within such conventional chemical processing equipment, it is typically likely that different portions of the reactant materials contained within the equipment are exposed to different histories of conditions. In the case of a conventional tank reactor, for example, even when the temperature conditions at the walls of the reactor are well controlled, the portions of the reactants that are not in close proximity to the walls of the reactor may experience different temperature histories, especially if a significant temperature gradient exists, which might occur if the chemical reaction is strongly exothermic. Rapid stirring of the reactants may reduce this temperature history difference, but will not eliminate it. As a result of the non-homogenous temperature history, different portions of the reactants may chemically react differently. In addition undesired reactions may occur in portions of the reactants that are exposed to histories of higher than desired temperatures. The result may be undesired waste products, in some cases hazardous waste products, and in extreme cases reaction rates that may accelerate to uncontrollable levels which may pose hazardous risks such as the potential for explosions. In view of these shortcomings, the chemical processing industry has shifted its attention to the development of miniaturized chemical processing apparatus known by terms such as microfluidic devices and microreactors. Such microfluidic devices or microreactors typically possess high surface area to volume ratios, which significantly improve the degree of precision of control of homogeneity of temperature history of the reactants processed within such devices. In addition to analysis, hazardous waste remediation and research based testing, microreactors may also be utilized for the transformation of various materials to other materials and for the continuous production of chemicals. Microfluidic devices, also known as microreactors, are structures familiar to those skilled in the art, structures for which numerous applications have already been described, in particular in references such as: Microreaction Technology, 3 Such devices known in the art include, microfluidic devices made of various types of material, and in particular of metals, silicon, polymers, ceramics, quartz, and/or glass. Such microreactors may include single devices or a plurality of single devices either stacked or otherwise arranged to be in fluid communication with one another. Each of the above-mentioned materials have their own unique shortcomings. For example, devices made of polymers cannot withstand temperatures of more than 200°C to 300°C over a prolonged period of time. Moreover, it is often difficult to control surface states effectively within such structures. Silicon devices are expensive, incompatible with certain biological fluids, and the semiconductive nature of silicon gives rise to problems with implementing certain pumping techniques, such as electro-hydrodynamic pumping and electro-osmotic pumping. Devices made of metal are liable to corrode, and in like manner, are typically not compatible with certain biological fluids. A chemical processing apparatus comprising:  The chemical processing apparatus of claim 1 wherein the microreactor comprises a material selected from the group consisting of nonmetallic elements of groups III, IV and V of the Periodic Table, ceramics, glasses, glass ceramics, polymers, composite materials, silicon and metals. The chemical processing apparatus of claim 1 wherein the pressure vessel comprises an autoclave. The chemical processing apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a heat conductive medium communicating with the microreactor within the pressure vessel. The chemical processing apparatus of claim 4 wherein the heat conductive medium comprises SiC. The chemical processing apparatus of claim 1 wherein the microreactor is configured to accommodate any of a plurality of operations. The chemical processing apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a first inlet fluid feedline passing through the pressure vessel and into the microreactor for increasing the pressure within the microreactor and a second inlet fluid feedline extending into the pressure vessel for increasing the pressure within the pressure vessel. A method of operating a microreactor at high pressure, the method comprising the steps of:  The method of claim 8 further comprising the step of maintaining a pressure differential of less than about 15.0 bar between the interior of the microreactor and the internal volume of the pressure vessel surrounding the microreactor during the increasing and performing steps. The method of claim 8 further comprising the step of maintaining a pressure differential of between about 0.0 bar and 5.0 bar between the interior of the microreactor and the internal volume of the pressure vessel surrounding the microreactor during the increasing and performing steps. The method of claim 8 wherein the increasing step comprises the step of feeding a fluid into the microreactor and into the pressure vessel via at least one inlet feed line. The method of claim 8 wherein the increasing step comprises the steps of feeding a first fluid into the microreactor via a first inlet feed line and feeding a second fluid, different from the first fluid into the pressure vessel via a second feed line. The method of claim 11 further comprising the step of feeding a target fluid into the microreactor prior to the performing step. The method of claim 13 further comprising the step of outputting the fluids fed into the microreactor externally of the pressure vessel via an outlet line extending from the interior of the microreactor to the exterior of the pressure vessel. The method of claim 13 further comprising the steps of allowing the fluids fed into the microreactor to flow into the internal volume of the pressure vessel and then directing the fluids from the internal volume of the pressure vessel to outside the pressure vessel via an outlet line. The method of claim 8 further comprising the step of disposing a heat conductive medium within the pressure vessel such that the heat conductive medium is in thermal communication with the microreactor. A chemical processing apparatus comprising:  The chemical processing apparatus of claim 17 wherein the microreactor and the pressure vessel each define an internal volume and wherein the internal volume of the microreactor is open to the internal volume of the pressure vessel. The chemical processing apparatus of claim 17 wherein the microreactor and the pressure vessel each define an internal volume and wherein the internal volume of the microreactor is sealed with respect to the internal volume of the pressure vessel. The chemical processing apparatus of claim 17 further comprising a heat conductive medium in thermal communication with the microreactor within the pressure vessel. <seperator>EP-1252860-A1<id_sep>groupA61B5slash00group classA61class subgroupA61B5slash0215subgroup subgroupA61B5slash07subgroup sectionAsection subclassA61Bsubclass Cardiac monitoring system with multiple implanted transponders A plurality of radio frequency passive transponders are attached to an animal's organ, such as the heart. Each passive transponder may be attached to the surface of the organ or mounted on a stent that is implanted in a blood vessel of the organ. An interrogator periodically sends an signal to each passive transponder which reacts by transmitting a reply signal. The interrogator processes the reply signals to derive information regarding activity of the organ. In one embodiment, the position of each passive transponder is determined from the reply signals, thereby enabling information about organ movement and volume change to be derived. In another embodiment, data from a sensor on the passive transponder is sent via the reply signal. Background of the Invention The present invention relates to devices for monitoring cardiac function in animals, and more particularly to such monitoring apparatus which employ components implanted in the animal. Description of the Related Art Patients with coronary disease often require monitoring in order to detect changes in their heart function. For example, cardiologists often are interested in cardiac output which is the amount of blood pumped from the heart during each cycle. The cardiac output can be determined from detecting the change in volume as the heart contracts. In other cases, it is desirable to detect movement of various portions of the heart to determine whether the heart muscles are functioning properly. Most procedures for monitoring cardiac activity and motion employ complex imaging of the heart using ultrasound, radio isotopes or magnetic resonance imaging apparatus and require that the patient go to a facility with the proper imaging equipment, As a consequence, it is desirable to provide an apparatus which can monitor heart motion without the use of special facilities. There also is a desire to be able to observe blood flow through coronary arteries and monitor cardiac output on a continuous basis. Summary of the Invention An apparatus for monitoring activity of an organ. such as the heart. in an animal comprises a transmitter for wirelessly sending an interrogation signal through the animal. One or more passive transponders, adapted to be attached to the organ, produce a reaction in response to receipt of the interrogation signal. In the preferred embodiment, that reaction comprises sending a reply signal wirelessly through the animal. A receiver detects the reaction of each transponder and a controller determines a characteristic of the organ based on the reaction of each transponder. For example, the position of each transponder, and thus the position of that part of the organ in which the transponder is located, can be determined by analyzing the intensity or relative time of receipt of the reply signals. The positions of the respective transponders then can be used to derive the volume of the organ and volume changes over time can be observed as in the case of a beating heart. Sensors also may be connected to the transponders to measure a physical characteristic of the organ and send information about that characteristic via the reply signal. Brief Description of the Drawings FIGURE 1 is a view of components of the present invention implanted in a patient; Figure 2 illustrates the geometric relationship of four transponders used in a system of Figure 1; Figure 3 graphically depicts computation of heart volume employing positions of the transponders; Figure 4 is a block schematic diagram of a transponder: Figure 5 is a block diagram of an electronic apparatus for interrogating the transponders; Figure 6 illustrates an alternative embodiment for a transponder attached to a stent that is placed within a blood vessel; and Figure 7 is a schematic block diagram of the circuitry for the transponder in Figure 6. Detailed Description of the Invention Figure 1 shows an apparatus 10 for monitoring performance of a heart 11 within a patient wherein the heart has blood vessels 12 which supply blood to the heart muscles. It should be understood that although the present invention is being described in the context of monitoring the heart, it can be use to monitor other organs. Four radio frequency transponders 14, 16, 18 and 20 are attached to the outer surface of the heart 11 using sutures, adhesive or similar mechanisms. Transponder 20 is located on the rear surface of the heart. As seen in Figure 2, the four transponders 14-20 are not located in the same plane and thus their positions can be represented as the apexes of a tetrahedron. Additional transponders can be placed on the heart, in which case a polyhedron with more apexes would be formed. The transponders 14-20 move with the exterior surface as the heart beats and the size of the tetrahedron changes with changes in the heart size. An apparatus for monitoring a physiological characteristic of an animal, that apparatus comprising:  The apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein there are a plurality of passive transponders attached to the organ in a non-planar array. The apparatus as recited in claim 2 wherein the controller processes the reaction of each of the plurality of passive transponders to determine a position of each passive transponder within the animal. The apparatus as recited in claim 2 wherein the controller derives a value for the volume of the organ from the position of each passive transponder. The apparatus as recited in claim 4 wherein the controller determines cardiac output from changes in the volume of the organ. The apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein the reaction of each passive transponder in response to the interrogation signal comprises transmitting a reply signal wirelessly through the animal. The apparatus as recited in claim 6 wherein the controller determines a position of each passive transponder in response to an intensity of the reply signal from each passive transponder. The apparatus as recited in claim 6 wherein the at least one passive transponder has sensors for detecting the physiological characteristic and transmits information regarding the physiological characteristic via the reply signal. The apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein each passive transponder is formed on a stent adapted to be implanted in a blood vessel of the animal. An apparatus for monitoring activity of a heart in an animal, that apparatus comprising:  The apparatus as recited in claim 10 wherein each passive transponder is formed on a stent adapted to be implanted in a blood vessel of the heart. The apparatus as recited in claim 10 wherein the controller determines movement of the heart from changes in positions of the plurality of passive transponders. The apparatus as recited in claim 10 wherein the controller derives a value for the volume of the heart from the positions of the plurality of passive transponders. The apparatus as recited in claim 13 wherein the controller determines cardiac output from changes in the volume of the heart. The apparatus as recited in claim 10 wherein at least one of the plurality of passive transponders has a sensor that detects a physical characteristic and transmits information regarding the physical characteristic via the reply signal. The apparatus as recited in claim 15 wherein the at least one of the plurality of passive transponders is formed on a stent adapted to be implanted in a blood vessel and the sensor provides information regarding a pressure drop across the stent. The apparatus as recited in claim 15 wherein the sensor provides information regarding electrical activity of the heart. A method for monitoring activity of an organ in an animal, that method comprising:  The method as recited in claim 18 wherein processing the reply signal derives information regarding movement of the organ. The method as recited in claim 18 wherein processing the reply signal derives information regarding changes in volume of the organ. The method as recited in claim 18 further comprising sensing a physical characteristic of the organ: transmitting information about that physical characteristic with the reply signal: and wherein processing the reply signal obtain the information about that physical characteristic. Any novel combination of features of a method or apparatus for monitoring a physiological characteristic of an animal and substantially as described herein and/or as shown in the accompanying drawings. <seperator>EP-1610058-A2<id_sep>subclassG02Fsubclass groupG02B6slash00group subgroupG02F1slash13subgroup sectionGsection subgroupG02F1slash13357subgroup sectionFsection subclassF21Ysubclass classF21class subclassG02Bsubclass groupF21V8slash00group subgroupF21Y101slash02subgroup subclassF21Vsubclass classG02class Surface light source device and image display unit comprising a light guide plate with prism protusions LEDs 5 serving as light sources are arranged so as to face an incidence surface 4 of a light guide plate 3. Light emitted from the LEDs 5 is incident on the incidence surface 4 of the light guide plate 3 to enter the light guide plate 3 to be propagated through the light guide plate 3. When the angle of incidence of the light on an emission surface 6 of the light guide plate 3 is a critical angle or less while the light is propagated, the.light leaves the emission surface 6. On at least one of the emission surface 6 of the light guide plate 6 and a surface 10 opposite to the emission surface 6 of the light guide plate 6, a large number of prism protrusions 12 extending in parallel to such a direction that a distance from the incidence surface 4 increases are formed along the incidence surface 4. A side-face side portion 10b of the prism protrusions 12 is formed so as to have a height gradually decreasing as a distance from the incidence surface 4 decreases. With this construction, even if the LEDs are used as light sources, abnormal emission can be suppressed in the vicinity of the incidence surface of the light guide plate, and the luminance of exiting light can be uniform.  The present invention relates to a surface light source deviceused as a back light or the like for illuminating a plane of a liquid crystal display panel (a member to be illuminated), in portable telephones, portable electronic terminal units, electronic notebooks, car navigation systems, digital cameras, video tape recorders, personal computers, televisions and various office appliances, an image display unit having the surface light source device, and a light guide plate used for the surface light source or image display unit. A typical one of surface light source devices used for portable telephones, portable electronic terminal units and so forth, has a fluorescent lamp on a side of the side face (on the side of an incidence surface) of a light guide plate as a light source, to emit light to a plane from the fluorescent lamp through the light guide plate to irradiate a liquid crystal display panel with the exiting light. Such a surface light source device is combined with the liquid crystal display panel to form an image display unit. In order to improve the luminance of the surface light source device, various devices have been made to the light guide plate. As one of them, the applicant of the present application has proposed a surface light source device wherein a large number of prisms-like protrusions extending in directions substantially perpendicular to an incidence surface of a light guide plate (see, e.g., Japanese Patent Laid-Open No. 10-268138). By the way, in recent years, in order to improve the user's handling of portable telephones, portable electronic terminal units and so forth, it has been attempted to increase a display screen as large as possible while decreasing the thickness and weight of the telephone or unit body. In such a technical background, there has been developed a surface light source device which uses light emitting diodes (LEDs) as point light sources to decrease a light source housing space to increase the size of a display screen by the decrease of the light source housing space. In addition, portable telephones, portable electronic terminal units and so forth using the surface light source device have been put on the market. FIGS. 40 and 41 show an example of a surface light source device 101 using LEDs 100 as light sources in the above described light guide plate having a large number of prism-like protrusions. As shown in these figures, the surface light source device 101 has a plurality of LEDs 100 which face a side face (an incidence surface) 103 of a light guide plate 102. Aback surface (a surface opposite to an emission surface 106) of the surface light source device 101 is formed with a large number of prismprotrusions 104 extending in directions substantially perpendicular to the incidence surface 103 of the light guide plate 102. The prism protrusions 104 are designed to reflect light L, which is propagated through the light guide plate 102, to condense the light L, which leaves the emission surface 106 of the light guide plate 102, in a direction substantially normal to the emission surface 106 to enhance luminance (see FIG. 42). A surface light source device (1) comprising:  A surface light source device (1) as set forth in claim 1, wherein said one of said emission surface (6) of said light guide plate (3) and said surface opposite to said emission surface (6) of said light guide plate (3) is flat in the vicinity of said side face (4). A surface light source device (1) as set forth in claim 1, wherein said first prism protrusions (12) have a height which gradually increases in a direction from a vicinity of each of both end portions of said linear light source (5A) toward a corresponding one of said both end portions of said linear light source (5A) , in at least the vicinity of said side face (4). A surface light source device (1) as set forth in any one of claims 1, 2 and 3, wherein part of said first prism protrusions (12) on the side of said side face (4) include a portion in which a groove between adjacent two of said first prism protrusions (12) has a substantially circular-arc-shaped cross section. A surface light source device (1) as set forth in any one of claims 1, 2 and 3, wherein said light guide plate (3) has secondprismprotrusions (12) which are formed on the other of said emission surface (6) of said light guide plate (3) and said surface opposite to said emission surface (6) of said light guide plate (3),    said second prism protrusions (12) having a height which has a tendency to gradually decrease as a distance from said side face (4) increases and which is zero at a position being a predetermined distance away from said side face (4), and    said second prism protrusions (12) including a portion in which a groove between adjacent two of said second prism protrusions (12) has a substantially circular-arc-shaped cross section. A surface light source device (1) as set forth in any one of claims 1, 2 and 3, wherein part of said first prism protrusions (12) on the side of said side face (4) include a portion in which a groove between adjacent two of said first prism protrusions (12) has a substantially circular-arc-shaped cross section, and    said light guide plate (3) has second prism protrusions (12) which are formed on the other of said emission surface (6) of said light guide plate (3) and said surface opposite to said emission surface (6) of said light guide plate (3),    said second prism protrusions (12) having a height which has a tendency to gradually decrease as a distance from said side face (4) increases and which is zero at a position being a predetermined distance away from said side face (4), and    said second prism protrusions (12) including a portion in which a groove between adjacent two of said second prism protrusions (12) has a substantially circular-arc-shaped cross section. A surface light source device (1) as set forth in any one of claims 1, 2 and 3, wherein said light guide plate (3) has secondprismprotrusions (12) which are formed on the other of said emission surface (6) of said light guide plate (3) and said surface opposite to said emission surface (6) of said light guide plate (3),    said second prism protrusions (12) having a height which has a tendency to gradually decrease as a distance from said side face (4) increases and which is zero at a position being a predetermined distance away from said side face (4),    said second prism protrusions (12) including a portion in which a groove between adjacent two of said second prism protrusions (12) has a substantially circular-arc-shaped cross section, and    said height of said second prism protrusions (12) gradually increasing in a direction from a vicinity of each of both end portions of said linear light source (5A) toward a corresponding one of said both end portions of said linear light source (5A), in at least the vicinity of said side face (4). A surface light source device (1) as set forth in any one of claims 1, 2 and 3, wherein part of said first prism protrusions (12) on the side of said side face (4) include a portion in which a groove between adjacent two of said first prism protrusions (12) has a substantially circular-arc-shaped cross section, and    said light guide plate (3) has second prism protrusions (12) which are formed on the other of said emission surface (6) of said light guide plate (3) and said surface opposite to said emission surface (6) of said light guide plate (3),    said second prism protrusions (12) having a height which has a tendency to gradually decrease as a distance from said side face (4) increases and which is zero at a position being a predetermined distance away from said side face (4),    said second prism protrusions (12) including a portion in which a groove between adjacent two of said second prism protrusions (12) has a substantially circular-arc-shaped cross section, and    said height of said second prism protrusions (12) gradually increasing in a direction from a vicinity of each of both end portions of said linear light source (5A) toward a corresponding one of said both end portions of said linear light source (5A), in at least the vicinity of said side face (4). A surface light source device (1) as set forth in claim 1, wherein said light guide plate (3) has a large number of second prism protrusions (12) which are formed on the other of said emission surface (6) of said light guide plate (3) and said surface opposite to said emission surface (6) of said light guide plate (3) to extend in parallel to such a direction that a distance from said side face (4) increases and which are arranged along the side face (4), and    said second prism protrusions (12) have a height which has a tendency to gradually decrease as a distance from said side face (4) increases and which is zero at a position being a predetermined distance away from said side face (4). A surface light source device (1) as set forth in claim 9, wherein said secondprismprotrusions (12) include a portion in which a groove between adjacent two of said second prism protrusions (12) has a substantially circular-arc-shaped cross section. A surface light source device (1) as set forth in claim 9 or 10, wherein said second prism protrusions (12) have a height which gradually increases in a direction from a vicinity of each of both end portions of said linear light source (5A) toward a corresponding one of said both end portions of said linear light source (5A), in at least the vicinity of said side face (4). A surface light source device (1) as set forth in claim 9 or 10, wherein part of said first prism protrusions (12) on the side of said side face (4) include a portion in which a groove between adjacent two of said first prism protrusions (12) has a substantially circular-arc-shaped cross section. A surface light source device (1) as set forth in claim 9 or 10, wherein said second prism protrusions (12) have a height which gradually increases in a direction from a vicinity of each of both end portions of said linear light source (5A) toward a corresponding one of said both end portions of said linear light source (5A) , in at least the vicinity of said side face (4), and    part of said first prism protrusions (12) on the side of said side face (4) include a portion in which a groove between adjacent two of said first prismprotrusions (12) has a substantially circular-arc-shaped cross section. A surface light source device (1) as set forth in claim 9 or 10, wherein said first prism protrusions (12) have a height which gradually increases in a direction from a vicinity of each of both end portions of said linear light source (5A) toward a corresponding one of said both end portions of said linear light source (5A) , in at least the vicinity of said side face (4). A surface light source device (1) as set forth in claim 9 or 10, wherein said second prism protrusions (12) have a height which gradually increases in a direction from a vicinity of each of both end portions of said linear light source (5A) toward a corresponding one of said both end portions of said linear light source (5A), in at least the vicinity of said side face (4), and    saidfirstprismprotrusions (12) have a height which gradually increases in a direction from a vicinity of each of both end portions of said linear light source (5A) toward a corresponding one of said both end portions of said linear light source (5A), in at least the vicinity of said side face (4). A surface light source device (1) as set forth in claim 9 or 10, wherein said second prism protrusions (12) have a height which gradually increases in a direction from a vicinity of each of both end portions of said linear light source (5A) toward a corresponding one of said both end portions of said linear light source (5A), in at least the vicinity of said side face (4),    part of said first prism protrusions (12) on the side of said side face (4) include a portion in which a groove between adj acent two of said first prism protrusions (12) has a substantially circular-arc-shaped cross section, and    said first prism protrusions (12) have a height which gradually increases in a direction from a vicinity of each of both end portions of said linear light source (5A) toward a corresponding one of said both end portions of said linear light source (5A) , in at least the vicinity of said side face (4). A surface light source device (1) as set forth in claim 1, wherein a roughened surface capable of irregularly reflecting or diffusing light is formed on at least one of said emission surface (6) of said light guide plate (3) and said surface opposite to said emission surface (6) of said light guide plate (3), and    part of said first prism protrusions (12) on the side of said side face (4) include a portion in which a groove between adjacent two of said first prism protrusions (12) has a substantially circular-arc-shaped cross section. An image display unit comprising:  <seperator>EP-1541105-A1<id_sep>subgroupA61F13slash56subgroup classA61class subclassA61Fsubclass subgroupA61F13slash514subgroup subgroupA61F13slash551subgroup subgroupA61F13slash58subgroup subgroupA61F13slash15subgroup subgroupA61F13slash49subgroup subgroupA61F5slash44subgroup sectionAsection DISPOSABLE WEARING ARTICLE Here is disclosed a disposable wearing article in which a content of finishing textile oil in fibrous nonwoven fabric 42 constituting a backsheet 12 is 0.04wt% or less based on a weight of component fibers of the nonwoven fabric 42. In a front waist region of the wearing article, transversely opposite lateral portions 20 are provided with a pair of tape tabs 26 extending in a transverse direction. Each of these tape tabs 26 comprises a fixed section 27 permanently bonded to the outer surface of the backsheet 12 by means of adhesive 30, a first free subsection 28 temporarily bonded to the outer surface of the backsheet 12 by means of adhesive 31 applied on the inner surface of the first free subsection 28 and second free subsection 29 temporarily bonded to the outer surface of the first free subsection 28 by means of adhesive 32 applied to the inner surface of the second free subsection 29.  The present invention relates to disposable wearing articles such as an infant diaper, incontinence diaper, training pants, diaper cover and the like all adapted to absorb bodily discharge and to retain these bodily discharges therein. As an example of such disposable wearing article, a pants-type disposable diaper is well known, which is configured by front and rear waist regions opposed to each other and a crotch region extending between these waist regions and provided, in the crotch region, on the outer surface of a backsheet with tape tabs for disposal adapted to hold the used diaper contaminated with bodily discharges in a predetermined shape (See Japanese Patent Publication No. 1996-84746A). The diaper disclosed in the above cited Application comprises a liquid-pervious topsheet facing the wearer's skin, a liquid-impervious backsheet facing away from the wearer's skin and a liquid-absorbent core interposed between these sheets. In this diaper, the front and rear waist regions are connected to each other along transversely opposite lateral portions thereof by means of a plurality of heat-sealing lines arranged intermittently in a longitudinal direction of the diaper so as to define a waist-hole and a pair of leg-holes. Each of the tape tabs for the above described purpose comprises a fixed tape section firmly bonded to the outer surface of the backsheet by means of adhesive and a free tape section being contiguous to the fixed tape section and placed upon the outer surface of the fixed tape section. The free tape section is coated on its inner surface with self-adhesive by means of which the free tape section is temporarily bonded to the outer surface of the fixed tape section. Plastic film is used as stock material for this tape tab for disposal of the used diaper. To dispose of the diaper contaminated with bodily discharges, the front and rear waist regions are folded in two, respectively, these waist regions placed upon the crotch region, then the free tape section is peeled off from the fixed tape section and anchored on the outer surface of the backsheet by means of self-adhesive. In this way, the diaper is retained by the tape tabs in its folded state and ready for disposal. For the backsheet formed by fibrous nonwoven fabric, it is well known to coat the nonwoven fabric with finishing textile oil or to mix such oil into the component fibers of the nonwoven fabric to make the component fibers of the nonwoven fabric flexible and smooth and to provide the nonwoven fabric with water-repellency. The finishing textile oil may be selected from the group consisting of anionic, nonionic, cationic and ampholytic surfactants and a mixture thereof. In the case of anionic or nonionic surfactant, the surfactant is sometimes mixed with any one of fat and oil, wax, fatty acid, higher alcohol, mineral oil and hardened oil in order to facilitate such surfactant to adhere to the fibers. Assumed that the backsheet of the diaper disclosed by the above-cited Application is formed by fibrous nonwoven fabric, and this nonwoven fabric contains the finishing textile oil, there is possibility, depending on compatibility between the finishing textile oil and adhesive, that the finishing textile oil might progressively deteriorate an adhesive force of the adhesive and an adhesive strength of the tape tabs to the backsheet might be deteriorated as time elapses. Deterioration of the adhesive strength of the fixed tape section to the backsheet would lead to a serious inconvenience that the fixed tape sections of the tape tabs are apt to be peeled off from the outer surface of the backsheet and the fixed tape sections may sometimes be unintentionally peeled off from the backsheet as the free tape sections are peeled off from the associated fixed tape sections for disposal of the diaper. A disposable wearing article having front and rear waist regions opposed to each other, a crotch region extending between these waist regions, and tape tabs attached to the outer surface of the backsheet facing away from a wearer's skin, said disposable wearing article further comprising:  The wearing article according to Claim 1, wherein each of said tape tabs comprises a fixed section permanently bonded to the outer surface of said backsheet by means of said adhesive and a first free subsection being contiguous to said fixed section so as to be placed upon the outer surface of said fixed section and temporarily bonded to the outer surface of said fixed section by fastening means formed on the inner surface of said first free subsection. The wearing article according to Claim 2, wherein said adhesive applied on said fixed section of said tape tab is pressure-sensitive adhesive. The wearing article according to Claim 3, wherein each of said tape tabs further comprises a second free subsection provided on transversely opposite side edge portions of said front or rear waist region so as to extend laterally outward therefrom, respectively, and being contiguous to said first free subsection so as to be placed upon the outer surface of said first free subsection and wherein said second free subsection is temporarily bonded to the outer surface of said first free subsection by fastening means formed on the inner surface of said second free subsection. The wearing article according to Claim 1, wherein said tape tabs are provided on transversely opposite side edge portions of said front or rear waist region so as to extend longitudinally and means to connect said front and rear waist regions to each other are formed on the outer surfaces of said tape tabs. The wearing article according to any one of Claims 1 through 5, wherein adhesive strength of said fixed tape section to said backsheet is 4N/20mm or higher as measured after said wearing article has been left at a temperature of 50°C and at a humidity of 60% for a week. The wearing article according to any one of Claims 1 through 5, wherein said backsheet has elastic stretchability in its transverse direction and said tape tabs are bonded to said backsheet while said backsheet is stretched in its transverse direction. The wearing article according to Claim 6, wherein a plurality of elastic members spaced one from another by a given dimension are contractibly attached to said backsheet and said elastic stretchability of said backsheet in its transverse direction is given by said elastic members. The wearing article according to any one of Claims 1 through 7, wherein said fibrous nonwoven fabric constituting said backsheet is made of spun bond nonwoven fabric or spun lace nonwoven fabric. The wearing article according to any one of Claims 2 through 8, wherein said fastening means are provided in the form of pressure-sensitive adhesive or hooks constituting so-called mechanical fastener. 