<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0012012
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800611
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B25B-29/00 F16B-31/04 B25B-29/02 F16B-31/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
method of securing together interengaging parts by means of screwthreaded fasteners, tensioning apparatus, and assembly comprising interengaging parts and fastener.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
christie w indgb<sep>w. christie (industrial) limited <sep>w. christie (industrial) limited58-62 seaward streetglasgow, g41 1hg scotlandgb   <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
porter terence johngb<sep>porter, terence john<sep>porter, terence john283 east bawtry roadrotherham, yorkshiregb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
tensioning apparatus (6) for screw threaded fasteners (5),  for example studs and bolts, mounted in holes (4) in  intergegaging parts (1,2,3) to be secured together, for exam­ ple casing flanges, usually includes an hydraulic piston-and-­ cylinder device whereof the cylinder (18) during tensioning of  a fastener is supported on the portions of the interengaging  parts between the fasteners.  such tensioning apparatus can­ not be used when the fasteners are mounted close together.   this is a serious problem, which is now overcome by provid­ ing in the hole in the interengaging parts fastening means  including a tubular screwthreaded fastener to provide an  assembly having an axial bore therein and a closure (12) at an  end of the bore, inserting a rod (16) endwise into the axial bore  of the assembly so that the rod abuts the end closure, and  connecting the cylinder of an hydraulic piston-and-cylinder  device to the fastener at the end thereof remote from the  closure so that on actuation of the device to tension the fas­ tener there is a thrust by the piston (19) of the device against  the closure through the medium of the rod.  as the cylinder of  the hydraulic device is now fitted to a projecting end portion of  the fastener instead of being applied to the interengaging  parts, tensioning of the fasteners on the parts can be effected  quickly and efficiently even when the fasteners are in close  proximity to one another.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
improvenents in or relating to the tensioning of screw threaded fasteners in securing together interengaging parts this invention relates to the tensioning of crewthreaded fasteners including studs and bolts in securing together interengaging parts such for example as opposed flanges of a composite machine casing. the usual tensioning means in use at present include an hydraulic piston-and-cylinder device whereof the cylinder is supported at the periphery of the fastener on one of the interengaging parts for reaction against said part. it will be appreciated that the size of the peripheral reaction zone and the size of the cylinder increase as the load requirements on the fastener increase. consequently, where the space between fasteners is small, as for example, in the casings of turbine generators, in split-casing type pumps, and in high-pressure split-casing compressors, it is impossible to use the existing tensioning means. ifl fact, the inter-fastener distances are frequently so small that round nuts or heads must be used instead of the usual hexagonal nuts or heads. to effect tightening of the fasteners in these situations, instead of using tensioning means, the fasteners are made hollow or tubular to accomodate a heater. with the hollow fastener elongated by heating, it is tightened to abut the adjacent part so that the fastener on cooling is tensioned. however, uniform internal heating of the fasteners is difficult and timeconsuming, and fails to provide the speedy and accurate stud tensioning required by industry. the object of the present invention is to provide for quick and efficient tensioning of the fasteners even when they are mounted in close proximity to one another on the machine casing. according to the present invention we provide a method of securing together interengaging parts by means of screwthreaded fasteners, comprising mounting in a hole in the interengaging parts a tubular screw threaded fastener fo provide an assembly ra. 5n¯ an axial bore therein and a closure at an end of the bore, and tensioning the fastener, to stretch same including transmitting thrust through the axial bore to the closure. by tightening the tensioned fastener and removing the tension from the tightened fastener, further tightening is effected. - preferably, the tensioning of the fastener includes inserting a rod endwise into the axial bore of the assembly so that the rod abuts the closure and connecting the cylinder of an hydraulic piston-and-cylinder device to the fastener at the end of the fastener remote from the closure so that on acutation of the device there is a thrust by the piston of the device against the closure through the medium of the rod. by directing tensioning thrust axially through the centre of the fastener instead of against the parts around the periphery of the fastener, the tensioning means can readily be fitted to fasteners mounted in awkward positions formerly considered inaccessible to tensioning means. further according to the present invention we provide apparatus for use in tensioning a tubular screwthreaded fastener mounted in a hole in interengaging parts to provide an assembly
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims   1. a method of securing together interengaging parts by means of screwthreaded fasteners, comprising mounting in a hole in the interengaging parts a tubular screwthreaded fastener to provide an assembly having an axial bore therein and a closure at an end of the bore, and tensioning the fastener to stretch same including transmitting thrust through the axial bore to the closure.   2. a method according to claim 1, including tightening the fastener following the tensioning, and removing the tension from the tightened fastener to permit further tightening of the fastener.   3. a method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the tensioning of the fastener includes inserting a rod endwise into the axial bore of the assembly so that the rod abuts the closure, and connecting the cylinder of an hydraulic pistonand-cylinder device to the fastener at the end of the fastener remote from the closure so that on accuation of the device there is a thrust by the piston of the device against the closure through the medium of the rod.   4. a method according to claim 3, wherein the    rial    bore of the assembly is a blind axial bore in the fastener so that an end portion of the fastener serves as the end closure for the bore.   5. a method according to claim 3, wherein the fastener has a through bore therein and, a screwthreaded end portion of the fastener is engaged in a tapped blind hole in one of the interengaging parts so that said one part provides the end closure of the assembly bore.   6. a method according to claim 3, wherein the fastener has a through bore in a step, a screwthreaded end portion of the stem is engaged by a cap nut which provides the end closure for the assembly bore, 7. a method according to any one of claims 4 to 6, wherein the end closure includes an internal seat for engagement by the end face of the rod.     8. a method of securing together interengaging parts by means of screwthreaded fasteners substantially as hereinbefore described.   9. an assembly comprising a plurality of interengaging parts and a tubular screw threaded fastener mounted in a hole in the parts and tensioned by the method of any one of claims l-to 8.   10. apparatus for use in tensioning a tubular screwthreaded fastener mounted in a hole in interengaging parts to provide an assembly having an axial bore therein and having a closure at an end of the axial bore, comprising an hydraulic piston-and-cylinder device whereof the cylinder is detachably connectible to an end portion of the fastener remote from the closure so that on operation of the device to stretch the fastener thrust is applied by the piston to the closure through a medium in the axial bore.   11. apparatus according to claim 10, including a rod for insertion endwise into the axial bore of the assembly to abut the closure at the end of the bore and form the thrust medium.   12. apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the cylinder of the piston-and-cylinder device has thereon at one end thereof, a tapped sleeve forming an axial extension which is   engageabie    with a threaded end portion of the fastener to locate the piston face opposite an end face of the inserted rod.   13. apparatus according to claim 12, wherein the tapped sleeve is in screw-threaded engagement with the cylinder of the device so as to be removable from the cylinder.    14. apparatus according to claim 12 or 13, wherein the tapped sleeve on the cylinder of the device is engageable with a projecting screwthreaded end portion of a stud-andnut arrangement constituting the fastener 15. apparatus according to claim 12 or 13, wherein the tapped sleeve on the cylinder of the device is engageable with the screwthreaded head of a bolt constituting the fastener.        16    apparatus for use in tensioning a tubular screw   threaded faste@er mou@ted in a hole in interengaging    parts to provide an assembly having an axial bore therein and having a closure at an end of the axial bore, substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to the accompanying drawings.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
