<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0014515
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800820
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
A61K-6/09 <main>C08F-265/06</main> A61K-6/02 C08F-265/06 C08F-289/00 A61K-6/083 C08F-2/44 C08F-291/00 C08F-2/00 C08F-265/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
hardenable compositions, process to make a shaped article therefrom and dental appliance comprising it.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
dentsply int inc us<sep>dentsply international, inc.  <sep>dentsply international, inc.570 west college avenue p.o. box 872york pennsylvania 17405us<sep>dentsply international, inc.<sep>dentsply international, inc.570 west college avenue p.o. box 872; york pennsylvania 17405<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
roemer frederick donald<sep>tateosian louis hagop<sep>roemer, frederick donald<sep>tateosian, louis hagop<sep>roemer, frederick donald479 s. pleasant avenuedallastown pennsylvaniaus<sep>tateosian, louis hagop209 reynolds mill roadyork pennsylvaniaus<sep>roemer, frederick donald<sep>tateosian, louis hagop<sep>roemer, frederick donald479 s. pleasant avenue; dallastown pennsylvania<sep>tateosian, louis hagop209 reynolds mill road; york pennsylvania<sep>roemer, frederick donald479 s. pleasant avenuedallastown pennsylvaniaus<sep>tateosian, louis hagop209 reynolds mill roadyork pennsylvaniaus<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
compositions hardenable by exposure to heat or  electro-magnetic radiation are provided by blending from  about 0% to about 50% by weight of an uncrosslinked  polymer, from about 20% to about 66% of a polymerizable  monomer capable of dissolving said polymer, from about  10% to about 70% of a crosslinked polymer in the form of  discrete particles having average diameters of from 0. 001  micron to about 500 microns and being swellable by said  monomer, and from about 0. 25% to about 27% of a crosslink­ ing agent for said monomer.  such compositions exhibit  superior chemical and physical characteristics when har­ dened and are suitable in a wide variety of applications as  construction media.  in accordance with a preferred form of  the invention, a precursor blend is formed from a mixture  comprising (a) from 13 to 52 weight percent of a crosslinked  polymer of an ester of a c₁ - c₆ alkyl acrylic acid and a c₁ - c₂₀  alkyl or cycloalkyl alcohol, said crosslinked polymer being in  the form of fine particles at least 50% by weight of which have  average diameters less than 150 microns; (b) from 13 to 34  weight percent of an uncrosslinked polymerized ester of a c₁ -  c₆ alkyl acrylic acid and a c₁ - c₂₀ alkyl or cycloalkyl alcohol  having an average molecular weight of from 500,000 to  900,000 g/mole; (c) from 25 to 55% by weight ofa polymeriz­ able monomeric ester of a c₁-c₆, alkyl acrylic acid and a c₁ - c₂  alkyl or cycloalkyl alcohol, which monomeric ester is capable  of dissolving said uncrosslinked polymerized ester and of  swelling, or interpenetrating, said crosslinked polymer parti­ cles; and (d) from7% to 22% by weight of a crosslinking agent  for said polymerizable monomeric ester.  such precursor  blends, after being aged for a time sufficient to insure that the  crosslinked polymer particles have become substantially fully  swollen with or interpenetrated by the mixture of monomeric  ester and crosslinking agent, is especially suitable in the pro­ duction of prosthetic dental appliances, such as, for example,  prosthetic teeth.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
dsscpiption this invention provides hardenable compositions useful as construction media for a wide range of applications. particular utility is found in the dental and medical arts where such compositions are highly suitable for the formation and construction of artificial teeth and for other dental and prosthetic uses. more particularly, the invention relates to polymeric compositions comprising crosslinked polymers, monomers, and crosslinking agents for said monomers, and optionally uncrosslinked polymers which form precursor blends. these precursor blends are capable of being formed or molded and caused to polymerize to provide articles possessing superior physical and physiochemical properties. artificial teeth should exhibit certain physical and physiochemical characteristics to be suitable for use. they should be hard and resistant to chipping, durable, and stable to solvents, water, and heat. in addition, they should be of an aesthetically acceptable color, i.e., close to that of natural teeth, or be amenable to artificial coloration. the teeth should not cause excessive wear to opposing natural or artificial teeth, should not wear out of occlusion, and should be capable of being bonded firmly to supportive structures. they should also be amenable to orcinary means of physical shaping, grinding, and polishing, so as tc minimize production costs. various metals nd ceramics craze been ran itionally use, for the formation of artificial teeth and other dental av iian¯es. these, however, possess contain inherent defici e..cies which lessen their dos iralil: in dental op ica tions. thus, te etellic color c: gold, amalgam, and ocher metal'.' species serves as an aesthetic detraction to the wearer of appliances made therefrom. in addition, the high cost of most noble metals from which many such appliances are commonly made leads to a cost consideration whenever their use is contemplated. ceramic materials, another common alternative, are often difficult to form into acceptable shapes, and may tend to evidence abrasive and aesthetically unpleasant subsurfaces upon the physical wearing-away of surface layers. such materials are also difficult to polish satisfactorily. these reasons together with factors related to cost, to consumer preference, to the technical skills of dental practitioners, and to convenience have motivated a search for alternative compositions suitable for the construction of dental appliances, especially artificial teeth. of the presently available organic compositions used for the construction of artificial teeth, most are composed of acrylics, often crosslinked by polyfunctional moieties. while such compositions are now commonly in use, they nonetheless possess certain drawbacks. in general, currently available acrylic compositions are only poorly resistant to wearing and grinding and may stain easily. moreover, their mechanical workability is poor and they tend to melt and smear when ground. their resistance to heat and to solvents is often poor, and in some cases, they are hydrolytically unstable. accordingly, it is a principal object of this invention to provide compositions which are useful in the construction of artificial teeth and other dental appliances, which compositions lead to products having improved workability and superior physical and aesthetic characteristics. it is to te understood that the term "bispnenol-" is commonly utilized
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 chains    1. a hardenable composition comprising a blend of:  (a) from   08    to about   50     of an   uncrosslinke     polymer;  (b) from about 20% to about 66% of a polymerizable monomer capable of dissolving said polymer;  (c) from about 10% to about 70% of a crosslinked polymer in the form of discrete particles having average diameters from about 0.001 micron to about 500 microns and being swellable by said monomer; and  (d) from about 0.25% to about 27% of a crosslinking agent for said monomer; said percentages being based upon the total weight of a, b, c and d in said composition, said particles being substantially fully swollen by said monomer and said crosslinking agent.    2. the composition of claim 1 wherein said crosslinked polymer is present in an amount of from about 13% to about 52% by weight.    3. the composition of claim 1 wherein said uncrosslinked polymer is present in an amount of from about 13% to about   348    by weight.      4. the composition of claim 1 wherein said   polyrerizable    monomer is present in an amount of from about   258    to about   55t    by weight.    5. the composition of claim 1 wherein said crosslinking agent is present in amount of from about   75    to about   228      byeight.         6. the    composition of claim 1 wherein at least about 50% by weight of said particles have average diameters below about 150 microns.    7. the composition of claim 1 wherein said crosslinked polymer is present in an amount of from about   135    to about 52% by weight, said uncrosslinked polymer is present in an amount of from about 13% to about 34% by weight, said polymerizable monomer is present in an amount of from about 25% to about 55% by weight, said crosslinking agent is present in an amount of from about 7% to about 22% by weight, and at least about 50% by weight of said particles have average diameters below about 150 microns.    8. the composition of claims 1, 5, 6 or 7 wherein said cross linking agent is selected from the group consisting of 2,2-bis(methacryloxyphenyl)propane; ethylene "glycol" dimethacrylate; ethylene "glycol" diacrylate;   2t2-bis[4-(2-hydroxy-3-methacryloxy-      propoxy)phenyl)propane;    and the reaction product of   either    hydroxyethyl acrylate or hydroxyethyl methacrylate with 2,2,4-trimethylhexyl   1,6-diisocyanate.         9. the composition of claims 1, 6 or 7 further   corisir.g    one or more members selected from the group consisting of free radical initiators,   photocheicl    initiators, activators,   pigments,    fillers, adhesion modifiers and radiopaquing agents.    10. the composition of claim 1 wherein said polymerizable monomer comprises an ester of an acid selected from the group consisting of acrylic acid and c1 to c6 alkyl acrylic acids and an alcohol selected from the group consisting of alkyl alcohols having from 1 to about 20 carbon atoms, cycloalkyl alcohols having from 1 to about 20 carbon atoms, phenol, and alkyl substituted phenol having from 1 to about 6 carbon atoms in the alkyl substituents thereof.    11. the composition of claim 1 wherein said crosslinking agent comprises an ester of at least two moles of an acid selected from the group consisting of acrylic acid and c1 to c6 alkyl acrylic acids reacted with one mole of an alcohol having at least two hydroxylic functionalities, said alcohol having from 2 to about 30 carbon atoms.    12. the composition of claim 1 wherein said polymerizable monomer is selected from the group consisting of methyl-, ethyl-1 trifluoroethyl-, propyl-, butyl-, pentyl-, and hexyl-, acrylate and methacrylate.         13. the composition of claim 1 wherein said uncrosslinked    polymer comprises a polymerized   r.i?:ture    of two or more monomers.    14. the composition of claim 1 wherein said uncrosslinked polymer   comprises    a   polymerize    ester of an acid selected from the group consisting of acrylic acid and c1 to c6 alkyl acrylic acids and an alcohol selected from the group consisting of alkyl and cycloalkyl alcohols having from 1 to about 20 carbon atoms, phenol, and alkyl substituted phenol having from 1 to about 6 carbon atoms in the alkyl substituents thereof.    15. the composition of claim 1 wherein said uncrosslinked polymer is selected from the group consisting of polymerized methyl-, ethyl-, propyl-,   isopropyl-      and    butyl-acrylate and methacrylate and mixtures thereof.    16. the   ccmposition    of   claim    where said   crosslinked    polymer comprises a polymerized mixture of from about   7cx    to about 99.9 % monomer and   lrom    about   0.01s    to about   30 ,4    .crosslinking agent for said monomer.    17. the composition of claim 16 wherein said polymerizable monomer comprises an ester of an acid selected from the group consisting of acrylic acid, and c1 to c6 alkyl acrylic acids and an alcohol selected from the group consisting of alkyl alcohols having from 1 to about 20 carbon atoms, cycloalkyl alcohols having from 1   to    about 20 carbon atoms, phenol, and alkyl substituted phenol having from 1 to about 6 carbon atoms in the alkyl   sub-    stituents   thereof.         18. the composition of claim 17 wherein said   crosslin.:i.ng     agent comprises an ester of at least two moles of said acid reacted  with one mole of an alcohol having at least two hydroxylic function  alities and having from 2 to about 30 carbon atoms.    19. the composition of claim 16 wherein said crosslinking   agent    comprises an ester of at least two moles of an acid selected  from the group consisting of acrylic acid and clto   c6    alkyl acrylic  acids, reacted with one mole of an alcohol having at least two  hydroxylic functionalities and having from 2 to about 30 carbon  atoms.    20. a process for producing a shaped article comprising:  mixing together a blend comprising:  (a) from 0 to about   50 &    of an uncrosslinked polymer;  (b) from about   208    to about   66i    of a polymerizable  monomer capable of dissolving said polymer;  (c) from about 10% to about   705    of a crosslinked  polymer in the form of discrete particles having average diameters  from about 0.001 micron to about 500 microns and being swellable by  said monomer;   and  (d) from about 0.25% to about 27% of a crosslinking  agent for said monomer;  said percentages being based upon the total weight of a, b, c, and d;  maintaining said components in association with one another in   sai.d     blend for a period of time sufficient to substantially fully swell  said particles with the mixture of said monomer having said cross  linking agent dissolved therein;  shaping said blend; and     exposing said   blend    to   heat    or to   electronagne=ic    radiation  to harden said blend and to provide said shaped article.    21. a process for producing a shaped   article    comprising:  forming a first component from a mixture comprising:  (a) a polymerizable monomer,  (b) a crosslinking agent for said monomer, and  (c) a crosslinked polymer in the form of discrete 'particles having average diameters from about 0.001 micron to about 500 microns and being swellable by said monomer;  maintaining (a), (b), and (c) in association with one another in said mixture for a period of time sufficient to substantially fully swell said particles with the mixture of said monomer having said crosslinking agent dissolved therein; ;  blending said first component with  additional polymerizable monomer,  additional crosslinking agent for said monomer, and  an uncrosslinked polymer, to form a blend comprising from 0% to about 50% of said uncrosslinked polymer, from about   20t    to about 66 of said monomer, said monomer being capable of dissolving said uncrosslinked polymer, from about 10% to about   708    of said crosslinked polymer and from about 0.25% to about   274    of said crosslinking agent, said percentages being based upon the total weight of said uncrosslinked polymer, monomer, cross linked polymer and crosslinking agent,  shaping said blend, and  exposing said blend to heat or to electromagnetic radiation to cause a hardening of said blend and to provide said shaped article      22. the process of claim 230 or claim 21 wherein    said   crcsslnked    polymer   s    present   ifl    an amount of from about 13% to about 52% by weight.   23. the process of claim 20 or claim 21 wherein said uncrosslinked polymer is present in an amount of from about   13%,    to about 34% by weight.   24. the process of claim 20 or claim 21 wherein said polymerizable monomer is present in an amount of from about 25% to about 55% by weight.   25. the process of claim 20 or claim 21 wherein said crosslinking agent is present in amount of from about 7% to about 22% by weight.   26. the process of claim 20 or claim 21 wherein at least about   90,0    by weight of said particles have average diameters below about 150 microns.   27. the process of claim 20 or claim 21 wherein said crosslinked polymer is present in an amount of about 13% to about 52% by weight, said uncrosslinked polymer is present in an amount of from about 13% to about 34% by weight, said polymerizable monomer is present in an amount of from about 25% to about 55% by weight, said crosslinking agent is present in an amount of from about   7     to about 22% by weight, and at least 50% by weight of said particles have average diameters below about 150 microns.        28.    the process of clays   20,21,25,26    or 27 wherein   sal    crosslinking agent is selected from the group consisting of   2,2-bis(methacryloxyphenyl)propane;    ethylene "glycol" dimethacrylate; ethylene   "glycol"    diacrylate;   2,2-bisl4-(2-hyd-roxy-3-meth cryl-      oxypropoxy)phenylgprop2ne;    and the reaction product of either hydroxyethyl acrylate or hydroxyethyl methacrylate with   2,2,4-    trimethylhexyl-1,6-diisocyanate.    29. the process of claims 20,21,26   or.    27 further   co w rising    one or more members. selected from the group consisting of free radical initiators, photochemical initiators, activators, pigments, fillers, adhesion modifiers and radiopaquing agents.    30. the process of claims 20 or 21 wherein said   polymerizable    monomer comprises an ester of an acid selected from the group consisting of acrylic acid and c1 to c6 alkyl acrylic acics and an alcohol selected from the group consisting of alkyl alcohols having from 1 to about 20 carbon atoms, cycloalkyl alcohols having from 1 to about 20 carbon atoms, phenol, and alkyl substituted phenol having from 1 to about 6 carbon atoms in the alkyl substituents thereof.    31. the process of claims 20 or 21 wherein said   crosslimking    agent comprises an ester of at least two moles of an acid selected from the group consisting of acrylic acid and clto c6 alkyl acrylic acids reacted with one mole of an alcohol having at least two hydroxylic functionalities said alcohol having from 2 to about 30 carbon atoms.      32. the process of claims 20 or 21 wherein said   tolymerizable    monomer is selected from the group consisting of methyl-, ethyl-, trifluoroethyl-, propyl-,   butyl-,    pentyl-, and hexyl-, acrylate and methacrylate.       33. the process of claims 20 or:21 wherein-said uncrosslinked    polymer comprises a polymerized mixture of two or more monomers.    34. the process of claim 20 or 21 wherein said. uncross  linked polymer comprises a polymerized ester of an acid selected  from the group consisting of acrylic acid and c1to c6 alkyl acrylic acids and an alcohol selected from the group consisting of alkyl and cycloalkyl alcohols having from 1 to about 20 carbon  atoms, phenol, and alkyl substituted phenol having fron 1 to about 6 carbon atoms in the alkyl substituents thereof.    35. the process of claim 20 or 21 wherein said uncrosslinked  polymer is selected from the group consisting of polymerized  methyl-, ethyl-, propyl-, isopropyl- and butyl-acrylate and  methacrylate and mixtures thereof.    36. the process of claim 20 or 21 wherein said crosslinked  polymer comprises a polymerized mixture of from about   70só    to about  99.99% monomer and from about 0.01% to about   30%    crosslinking agent  for said monomer.      37. the process of claim 36 wherein said monomer  comprises an ester of an acid selected from the group consisting   'of    acrylic acids, and clto c6 alkyl acrylic acids and an alcohol  selected from the group consisting of alkyl alcohols having  from 1 to about 20 carbon atoms, cycloalkyl alcohols having  from 1 to about 20 carbon atoms, phenol, and alkyl substituted phenol having from 1 to about 6 carbon atoms in the alkyl substitulents thereof    38.    the process of claim 37 wherein said crosslinking  agent comprises an ester of at least two moles of said acid  reacted with one mole of an alcohol having at least two  hydroxylic functionalities and having from 2 to about 30 carbon  atoms.     39. the process of claim 36 wherein said crosslinking  agent comprises an ester of at least two moles of an acid  selected from the group consisting of acrylic acid and c1 to  c6 alkyl acrylic acids, reacted with one mole of an alcohol    having    at least two hydroxylic functionalities and having from  2 to about 30 carbon atoms.   40. an dental appliance comprising a shaped body   having    at least one portion comprising a polymerized blend of:  (a) from   0e    to about   50%    of an   uncrosslinked    polymer;  (b) from 20% to about 66% of a polymerizable monomer capable of dissolving said polymer;  (c) from about   107    to about 70% of a crosslinked polymer in the form of discrete particles having average diameters from about 0.001 micron to about 500 microns and being swellable by said monomer.    (d) from about   0.25e    to about 27% of a crosslinking agent for said monomer, said percentages being based upon the total weight of a, b, c, and d in said composition.    41. the appliance of claim 40 wherein said crosslinked polymer is present in an amount of from about 13% to about 52% by weight.    42. the appliance of claim 40 wherein said uncrosslinked polymer is present in an amount of from about   138    to about   34e    by weight.    43. the appliance of claim   40    wherein said polymerizable monomer is present in an amount of from about 25% to about 55% by' weight.      44. the appliance of claim 40 wherein said   crosslin1:ing    agent is present in amount of from about 7% to about   22e    by weight.    45. the appliance of claim 40 wherein at least 50% by weight of said particles have average diameters below about 150 microns  46. the appliance of claim 40 wherein said crosslinked polymer is present in an amount of about 13% to about 52% by weight, said uncrosslinked polymer is present in an amount of from about 13% to about   34 <     by weight, said polymerizable monomer is present in an amount of from about 25% to about   55%    by weight, said crosslinking agent is present in an amount of from about 7% to about   22t    by weight, and at least   509    bt weight of said particles have average diameters below about 150 microns.      47.    the appliance of claims 40, 44, 45 or 46 wherein said  cross linking agent is selected from the group consisting of    2,2-bis(methacryloxyphenyl)propane;    ethylene   "glycol"    dimethacrylate;  ethylene "glycol" diacrylate;   2,2-bis[4-(2-hydroxy-3-methacryl-     oxypropoxy)phenyl]propane; and the reaction product of either  hydroxyethyl acrylate or hydroxyethyl methacrylate and 2,2,4-tri    mthylhexyl-l ,6-d lisocyanate.         48. the appliance of claims 40, 45 or 46 'further   corr,-rising    one or more members selected from the group consisting of free radical initiators, photochemical initiators, activators, pigments, fillers, adhesion modifiers and radiopaquing agents.    49. the appliance of claim 40 wherein said polymerizable monomer comprises an ester of an acid selected from the group consisting of acrylic acid and clto c6 alkyl acrylic acids and an alcohol selected from the group consisting of alkyl alcohols having from 1 to about 20 carbon atoms, cycloalkyl alcohols having from 1 to about 20 carbon atoms, phenol, and alkyl substituted phenol having from 1 to about 6 carbon atoms in the alkyl substituents thereof.    50. the appliance of claim 40 wherein said crosslinking agent comprises an ester of at least two moles of an acid selected from the group consisting of acrylic acid and clto c6 alkyl acrylic acids reacted with one mole of an alcohol having at least two hydroxylic functionalities said alcohol having from 2 to about 30 carbon atoms.    51. the appliance of claim 40 wherein said   polymeriable    monomer is selected from the group consisting of methyl-, ethyl-, trifluoroethyl-, propyl-, butyl-, pentyl-, and hexyl-, acrylate and methacrylate.      52. the appliance of claim 40 wherein said uncrosslinked polymer comprises a polymerized mixture of two or more monomers.    53. the appliance of claim 40 wherein said uncrosslinked polymer comprises a polymerized ester of an acid selected from the group consisting of acrylic acid and c1 to   cg    alkyl acrylic acids and an alcohol selected from the group consisting of alkyl and cycloalkyl alcohols having from i to about 20 carbon atoms, phenol, and alkyl substituted phenol having from 1 to about 6 carbon atoms in the alkyl substituents thereof.    54. the appliance of claim   4q    wherein said   uncrossllnked    polymer is selected from the group consisting of polymerized methyl-, ethyl-, propyl-, isopropyl- and butyl-acrylate and methacrylate and mixtures thereof.      55.    the appliance of claim 40 where said   crosslinked    polymer comprises a polymerized misture of from about   7o    to about 99.99% monomer and from about   0.018    to about   10      crosslining    agent for said monomer.    56. the appliance of claim 40 wherein said monomer comprises an ester of an acid selected .from the group consisting of acrylic acids, and clto c6 alkyl acrylic acids and an alcohol selected from the group consisting of alkyl alcohols  having from 1 to about 20 carbon atoms, cycloalkyl alcohols having from 1 to about 20 carbon atoms, phenol, and alkyl substituted phenol having from 1 to about 6 carbon atoms in the alkyl sub stituents thereof.       57.    the appliance of claim 56 wherein said crosslinking agent comprises an ester of at least two moles of said acid reacted with one mole of an alcohol having at least two hydroxylic functionalities and having from 2 to about 30 carbon atoms.    58. the appliance of claim 55 wherein said crosslinking agent comprises an ester of at least two moles of an acid selected from the group consisting of acrylic acid and   c1    to c6 alkyl acrylic acids, reacted with one mole of an alcohol having at least two hydroxylic functionalities and having from 2 to about 30 carbon atoms.      59.    the appliance of claim 40 or 46 wherein said appliance exhibits the structure of an interpenetrating polymeric network at least locally interior to said portion.  
</CLAIMS>
<CLAIMS>
1. a process for producing a hard, water insensitive  shaped dental appliance having a high grind resistance by  (1) forming a moldable composition by the steps of (1a) blending a composition comprising  (a) 20 to 66% of liquid monofunctional polymerizable monomer, (b) 7 to 27% of di- or polyfunctional crosslinking  agent, which is reactive with said  monomer, (c) 10 to 70% of crosslinked polymer in the form  of discrete particles having average  diameters ranging from 0.001 µm to 500 µm,  whereby at least 50% by weight of said  particles have diameters less than 100 µm and  being swellable by said monomer but insoluble  therein, said crosslinked polymer having been  obtained by polymerizing a mixture of  monofunctional monomer and di- or  polyfunctional crosslinking agent, whereby  the amount of the crosslinking agent is  chosen such that  (a) it is sufficient to prevent the  particulate crosslinked polymer from  losing its particulate discreteness upon  exposure to the monomer component and (b) it provides a crosslinked polymer with  the capacity to swell with from 10 to 500%  of its own weight of monomer component  and (c) it is within the range of 0.01% to 30%  by weight of the crosslinked polymer and (d) 0 to 50% of an uncrosslinked polymer capable  of dissolving in component (a),  said percentages being based on the total  weight of a, b, c and d, whereby (e) optionally one or more members selected from  the group consisting of free radical  initiators, photochemical initiators,  activators, pigments, fillers, adhesion  modifiers and radiopaquing agents is  included; and (1b) aging said blend for a period of time  sufficient to fully swell said crosslinked  polymer particles with the mixture of said  monomer and crosslinking agent dissolved  therein, whereby optionally in a preswell stage  crosslinked polymer particles are caused to  swell with a mixture of polymerizable monomer  and crosslinking agent at a time preceeding the  final mixing of the ultimate composition, (2) thereafter shaping the obtained moldable  composition and (3) exposing said composition to heat or electromagnetic  radiation to harden it and provide a  shaped dental appliance. 2. a process according to claim 1, wherein a crosslinked  polymer with an amount of the crosslinking agent in  the range of 0.2 to 30% by weight of the crosslinked  polymer is used.    3. a process according to one of claims 1 or 2,  wherein  (a) 25 to 66% of liquid monofunctional polymerizable monomer (b) 7 to 22% of di- or polyfunctional crosslinking  agent, (c) 13 to 52% of crosslinked polymer and (d) 13 to 34% of uncrosslinked polymer  are blended. 4. a process according to one of claims 1 to 3,  characterized in that the blend is aged for a period of  time of 1 to 7 days. 5. a dental appliance, obtainable by the process of  one of claims 1 to 4. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
