<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0007185
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800123
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
G07F-7/02 G07F-7/00 G03G-21/02 G06F-13/374 G06F-3/00 G03G-21/04 G03G-21/00 G06F-13/36 G07C-3/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
copier control and record keeping apparatus.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
am intus<sep>am international, inc.<sep>am international incorporated333 west wacker drive suite 900chicago illinois 60606-1265us <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
flyn henry j us  <sep>gallagher patrick jus<sep>pine marmonus<sep>flyn, henry j.<sep>gallagher, patrick j.<sep>pine, marmon<sep>flyn, henry j.185 old sulton roadbarrington hills illinois 60010us<sep>gallagher, patrick j.348a mallard pointbarrington illinois 60010us<sep>pine, marmon9029 sherry lanedes plaines illinois 60016us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a copier control and record keeping method and system  including one or more computer terminals (66) connected to  and communicating with a central recorder (60), each termi­ nal (66) having a data base capability and means for memory  features for storage of information and sensing authorized  access, means for counting the numbers of original and  copies made, and means for accumulating data for transmis­ sion of the data to a recorder (60), such transmission being  effected only when both completion of a cycle and the  removal of a coded card from the terminal (66) receptacle have  occurred.  the apparatus includes means for monitoring and  for acknowledging received messages, and a time-delay,  keyed priority sensing system for recognizing and identifying  each of the terminals (66) and for preventing transmission  interference between the various terminals (66) all of which  are connected to transmit information to the central recorder  (60) on the same line (62).  additional features and capabilities  of the apparatus include means for transmitting service  requests to the central recorder (60), means for controlling  automatically the maximum number of copies that can be  made of each original, and means for entry of ancillary data  such as the size of the original being copied, and data identify­ ing the party or account to be billed for the copies made.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
copier control and second kke:ping apparatus the office copier has become a necessity of business life. while the convenience and practicality of such devices are unquestioned, the apparatus is susceptible of excessive and unauthorized non-business use. such use, over and above the proper business use in an office is objectionable in that it places unwarranted demands upon the equipment and results in increased operation costs. an additional problem associated with the extensive use of copying machines is the difficulty of maintaining records as to the particular client or project for which the copies are made. lack of such data makes it difficult properly to assess charges against departments or clients. it will be appreciated that the making of copies on the machine may constitute a very significant office expense, and that it is important from an accounting standpoint to be able properly to charge this business expense. in recent years, several different devices have been developed for dealing with the problems indicated above. specifically, equipment has been devised which will act to control the use of the machine and which will serve, as well to control and monitor operation. generally, such apparatus is intended to limit the number of persons using the machine and to count those copies made by each operator or by each department during a given time. tile means for controlling or regulating access to the copier itself have taken various forms including keys and coded cards. such apparatus has, however, been unduly complex, unreliable, or has failed to provide sufficient record keeping and related data to meet the demands of business. it is, therefore, the aim of the present invention to obviate the shortcomings of the prior art systems and to provide copier control and record keeping equipment which meets the need of modern business methods and procedures. the present invention constitutes office equipment such as copier control and record keeping apparatus which includes one or more terminals for accumulating, storing and transmitting information and data to a central recorder, the termnals include means for monitoring and for sensing and recording authorized access to the copier and means for counting the number of originals and the number of copies made by the copier, an additional important feature of the apparatus of the invention is that it includes means for introducing data into åa transmission line which connects the terminal and the central recorder and, in the case of a plurality of terminals, the apparatus includes means for establishing a selectable, predetermined priority among the several terminals to regulate the transmission of data from the terminals to the central recorder, thereby to obviate interference between terminals. still another important feature of the invention is that the apparatus includes means for monitoring, verifying and for acknowledging messages received at the central recorder from the terminals. additional related features include the capabilities of the invention to provide means for transmitting service requests to the central recorder, means for counting the number of originals and copies per original', and means
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:    1. a copier control and record-keeping apparatus, including electrical conductor means connecting said apparatus to a copier, said apparatus comprising:  a central recorder,    terminal    means for accumulating, storing, and transmitting information and data to said central recorder,  said   terminal    means including means for monitoring and for sensing authorized access to the copier,  means for counting the number of originals copied by the copier,  means for counting the number of copies made of each original copied by the copier,  transmission line means interconnecting said terminal means and said central recorder,  said apparatus including means for introducing data into said transmission line means from said   tenainal    means for delivery to said central recorder.      2.    the apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said terminal means includes a plurality of terminals, and further comprising:  means controlling and regulating input of data into said transmission line means from each of said   terminals    to obviate interference therebetween.    3. the apparatus as set forth in claim 2 and further comprising means for establishing a selectable predetermined priority among said plurality of terminal means for organizing the   trsnrmission    of data from said plurality of terminal means to said central recorder.    4. the apparatus as set forth in claim 1 and further comprising means for monitoring and for acknowledging messages received at said central recorder from said terminal means.    5. the apparatus as set forth in claim 2 wherein data transmitted from said plurality of terminal means to said central recorder traverse a   common    transmission line.    6. the apparatus as set forth in claim 1 and further  comprising means to transmit service requests to said central recorder, including means to monitor and to validate such   service    requests.    7. the apparatus as set forth in claim 1 and further comprising card means for obtaining access to said apparatus and means to authenticate said card means as a prerequisite for permitting access to said apparatus.    8. the apparatus as set forth in claim 2 and further comprising means for establishing a predetermined time delay interval for each said terminal means with reference to a clear transmission line condition sensed by each said terminal means upon initiation of steps to effect transmission from each said terminal means.    9. the apparatus as set forth in claim 3 wherein said means for establishing priority among said terminal means includes counter means, and means correlating each specific said terminal means with a corresponding specific said priority.     10. the apparatus as set forth.in claim 3 and further comprising variable switch means, and means for setting said variable switch   means    to establish a unique time base for each of said   tennirris    to establish said predetermined priority among said terminal means.      11    the apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said means for counting the number of originals copied by said copier includes means to sense time delays between successive copies made on said copier including means to differentiate between time delays between successive copies made sequentially from a given original and a different,   somewhat    greater time delay correlated with a change in an   original    to be copied.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
