<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0017445
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19801015
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B65H-49/08 B65H-59/00 B65H-49/00 B65H-59/06 B65H-57/18 B65H-57/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
a device for imparting tension to a filament.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
whellams geoffrey edmund<sep>whellams, geoffrey edmund<sep>whellams, geoffrey edmund3 spruce avenuecolchester essexgb<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
whellams geoffrey edmund<sep>whellams, geoffrey edmund<sep>whellams, geoffrey edmund3 spruce avenuecolchester essexgb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a device for holding a reel (14) of filament (9) such as of  fine copper wire which device also imparts tension to the  filament as the filament is drawn from the reel.  the device  has a holder (10) for the reel (14) and a pair of tensioning  elements (18,21) one of which (18) is mounted on an end  cheek of the reel and the other of which (21) is mounted on  the holder (10).  the tensioning elements interfit to define a  non-linear passage through which the filament passes  generally, radially inwardly towards and out of a central  aperture (27), whereby the zig-zag path the filament is  constrained to follow imparts tension to the filament.  since  the filament may enter the passage at any point in the 360°  arcuate width thereof, localised wear is eliminated.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
a device for ielpalzimg tension to a fiunent this invention relates to a tensioning device for imparting a tension to a filament drawn from a reel, as the filament is passed to some apparatus which employs the filament. though not exclusively, the invention finds particular application in the tensioning of relatively fine l re drawn from a reel thereof as the wire is passed to ccil-winding apparatus - for instance which winds a transformer winding. various types of tensioning device have been designed, taking into account the material of the particular filament being used and the processing apparatus in which the filament is employed. this tension is in fact the tensile force which must be applied to the filament in order to draw it to the process. an example of a knoz > n tensioning device for fine copper wire comprises a plurality of hard circular beads arranged in two series and through which the wire is passed, the beads of the two series being disposed alternately and the axes of the two series being parallel but displaced from one another. a wire passing through the device thus follows a zig-zag path and the internal and external friction so generated as the wire moves creates the tension. often with fine enamelled copper wire it is necessary to apply a pre-tension to the wire, by passing the wire between pair of friction elements such as felt pads, to ensure that the wire is loaded effectively to follow the zig-zag path. suph a tensioning device is typically located between but separate from both a reel holder for the wire and the machinery which uses the wire in a subsequent process. the tensioning device is however sometimes coupled to the processing machinery, as may be the reel holder itself. the relative displacement of the axes of the two series of beads has to be adjusted to give the required tension, but the tension is dependent also upon the character istics of the wire - such as the gauge and the insulation thereon. thus, adjustment is necessary whenever a reel of wire is changed for anotherfof a different type, even if the same tension is required. moreover, the friction between the wires and the beads tends rapidly to wear the beads by forming grooves therein, even if the beads are made of hard materials such as ceramics or glass. this leads to the requirement to adjust the device merely to maintain a required tension, during the use of the device with a particular type of wire. in addition, because insulation coatings have minor thickness variations on ary given length of wire the grooves worn in the beads give rise to rapidly changing tensions as the wire is pulled through the device. moreover, the grooves tend to slip the insulation from the wire. it is an aim of this invention to provide a device to apply tension to a filament tensioning apparatus which at least reduces the disadvantages associated with the knosm type of tensioning
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims   1. a device for imparting a tension to a filament drawn from a reel, which device comprises holding means for holding a reel of filament, and a pair of tensioning elements supported in a relatively spaced disposition to lie adjacent one end of a held reel, characterised in that each tensioning element   (18,21;    35,38; etc) is circular and has at least one annular surface (19,22; 37,;   40,;    etc), which annular surfaces on the two elements   (18,21;    35,38;  etc) co-operate with each other thereby to define a ron-linear passage of circular form between the elements and along which a filament (9) may pass generally radially inwardly, and further characterised in that both of the two elements   (18,21;    35, 38 etc) are supported with their annular surfaces substantially co-axial   with    and adjacent one end of a held reel (14; 33 etc) and that at least one of the elements (21; 38 etc) has a central aperture (27) through which a filament 9 drawn from the reel and passing radially inwardly through the passage may leave the device, the arrangement being such that the filament   (9)    wound on a held reel (14;  33 etc) may be drawn from the reel to pass generally radially inwardly along the passage there to be constrained to follow a non-linear path and out of the central aperture (27), the non-linear path imparting tension to the filament (9) and the filament being able to enter the passage at any point around the circular periphery thereof as the filament comes off a held reel (14; 33 etc).     2. a device as claimed in claim 1, further characterised in that the two tensioning elements (18; 21) are in the form of a pair of complementary stepped cylinders which interfit with clearance, the filament passage extending therebetween.   3. a device as claimed in claim 2, characterised in that one element (18) defines at least two external concentric cylindrical portions   (191,192...)    of different diameters, the larger portion (191) being adapted for positioning nearer a held reel, and in that the other element (21) defines at least two corresponding internal cylindrical portions   (221,222    ...), this other element (21) fitting with clearance over the one element (18).   4. a device as claimed in claim 1, further characterised in that each tensioning element is defined by a   plurality of rings (figure 4: 5c1,502 e ; 531, 532...) )    of different diameters and   spntially    fixed with respect to one another, the   rings (501,502    ...) of one element alternating with those (531,532...   )    of the other.   5. a device as claimed in claim 1, further characterised in that one tensioning element (figure 3: 35) defines a stepped cylinder and the other element (38) has a plurality of flanges (401,402) projecting radially inwardly from an internal cylindrical surface, the flanges (401,402) defining circular apertures for cooperation with the stepped cylinder thereby to define the non-linear passage.   6. a device as claimed in claim 1, further   characterined    in that the tensioning elements (figure 5: 65,69; figure 6: 78,80) are in the form of substantially flat  discs which are supported co-axially and parallel to one another, the discs   having    on their opposed faces annular upstanding   protrusions661,    701,702    ...),    the protrusions on one disc interfitting between the protrusions on the other.   7. a device as claimed in any of the preceding claims, further characterised in that the regions of the tensioning elements against which the filament rubs are rounded (figure 2) to prevent relatively high point loads occurring on the filament (9).   8. a device as claimed in any of the preceding claims, further characterised in that the disposition of one element (21) with respect to the holding means (10) is adjustable (25,26) to allow the spacing of the tensioning elements (18,21) to be varied.   9. a device as claimed in any of the preceding   clans,    further characterised in that the holding means (10) has an end plate   (19)    and a reel   (14)    of filament is held by being clamped between the end plate (12) and one of the tensioning elements (18).   10. a device as claimed in claim 9, characterised in that the one tensioning element (18) has an overall diameter substantially the same as that of the end cheek (17) of the held reel   (14).      11. a device as claimed in any of the preceding claims, characterised in that the aperture (figure 5: 71) is provided in the tensioning element nearer the held reel (62) the filament on leaving the non-linear passage turning to pass through the central bore of the reel and out of the end thereof remote from the tensioning  elements (65,69), to leave the device.    12. a device as claimed in any of the preceding claims, further characterised in that means (figure 6: 81; figure 7: 89) are provided to apply a pre-tension to the filament, prior to the filament passing through the non-linear passage defined between the two tensioning elements (78,80; 86,87).   13. a device as claimed in claim 12, characterised in that the pre-tensioning means   (pal;    89) comprises a resilient member bearing on one of the tensioning elements (78,87) adjacent the periphery thereof, the filament passing between the resilient member and the one element before entering the non-linear passage between the two elements.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
