<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0009763
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800416
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
A45C-13/00 B62B-1/00 A45C-13/38 B62B-1/12 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
collapsible luggage carrier.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
hirotaro kotani<sep>hirotaro, kotani<sep>hirotaro, kotanino. 2-4, ayameike-cho minami-6-chomenara-shi nara-ken, 631jp  <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
hirotaro kotani<sep>hirotaro, kotani<sep>hirotaro, kotanino. 2-4, ayameike-cho minami-6-chomenara-shi nara-ken, 631jp<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a collapsible luggage carrier being pulled along  behind the user rolling on two wheels (82).  so as to pos­ sess outstanding portability along with universal useful­ ness as a transport device the carrier is provided with a  spacious base platform frame (20) comprising two  x-shaped frames laterally arranged and pivotally con­ nected together, a back frame (60) comprising a telescopic  handle bar (40) and a pair of links (50) connected thereto  and being pivotally connected to the base platform frame  (20) at three equidistant portions (31),(32) in lateral align­ ment, expanding members (70),(71),(72),(73) for holding  both the frames (20),(60) in their laterally expanded state,  and none of rigid side assemblies disposed to opposite  sides of the carrier.  the both frames (20),(60) are unfold­ able at a right angle with each other and each foldable  over the other.  the frames (20),(60) are laterally expansible  and collapsible with each other.  the carrier is collapsible  into the form of a compact, short and slender bundle with­ out disassembly.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
collapsible luggage carrier description the invention pertains to portable luggage carrying devices which can be folded or collapsed into a compact unit. the carrying device is pulled along behind the user rolling on two wheels and is adapted to transport easily even a plurality of bags, boxes or other similar articles. some devices of this type are known which are portable as collapsed in the form of a bundle, but the known devices involve problems attributable to the inherent structure thereof. kazmark u.s. patent no. 3,612,563 (1971), for example, discloses a carrier which can be compacted to the form of a bundle when disassembled. this carrier is cumbersome to handle since the carrier must be disassembled, or conversely assembled for use. the device includes a suitcase support bracket of extremely small depth so as to be portable in a compact form. the device is unable to satisfactorily support a luggage of low rigidity because the bottom portion of the luggage is supported predominantly by a restraining strap. since the luggage is placed on the support bracket with its center of gravity positioned outside the bracket because of the small depth, the handle bar is likely to forwardly fall down. since the carrier has the support bracket as an elongated horizontal beam disposed outside two wheels diametrically outwardly thereof for supporting the wheels, the wheels remain projected when the carrier is in its folded state, hence bulky. shourek et al. u.s. patent no. 3,937,485 (1976) discloses a simple construction which, nevertheless, has inherent problems; a back portion or luggage support portion comprises a pair of telescopic tubular members which are difficult to hold in balance with each other when stretched, and the support portion fails to support the luggage with stability because it is triangular. kotani west german laid-open patent application no. 27 45 177 discloses a carrier comprising a luggage support frame, a back frame and a pair of side assemblies provided on opposite sides of the carrier being adapted to hold both the frames approximately at a right angle with each other in an unfolded position, each of the side assemblies including a flexible slanting brace having one end connected to a front portion of the luggage support frame and the other end connected to a lower portion of the back frame. when the carrier is loaded with a luggage of poor rigidity, a flexible strap extending from a handle bar in the upper portion of the back frame to the front portion of the support frame is tightened up to restrain the luggage. the slanting braces then act against the restraining action of the taut strap, consequently subjecting the handle bar and the lower portion of the back frame to forces acting in opposite directions and causing damage to the back frame structure. furthermore the carrier is unable to support luggage a with a width larger than the entire width of the carrier due to the presence of the slanting braces. the proposed device therefore is not fully
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims      1.    a portable luggage carrier collapsible into the form of a bundle comprising:  a base platform   frame (20)    including a pair of first  links(22) each pivotally connected to the other at  one end and angularly expansible and collapsible  and a pair of second   links(23)    each pivoted to the  midportion of one of the first   links (22)    approximate  ly at one end portion thereof intersecting said first  link(22), the second links(23) being pivotally  connected to each other at the other ends thereof  and being angularly expansible and collapsible, the  base platform frame(20) being adapted to receive    luggage(100)    thereon for transport,  a back frame,  first hinge means,  a pair of second hinge means,  expanding means,  and  a pair of wheels and characterized in that the carrier comprises:  the back   frame (60)    including a collapsible handle bar  pivotally connected at its lower portion to said  other ends of the pair of second links(23) and having  a handle member(41) at its upper portion and a pair  of third links(50) each pivotally connected approxi  mately at one end portion thereof to a portion of  one of the first   links (22)    close to its free end    and having the other ends pivotally connected to each  other and also connected to the handle bar(40), the  third links(50) being angularly expansible and collap  sible, the back   frame (60)    being unfoldable to a  position at least at a right angle with the base  platform frame(20) and foldable over the base plat  form frame(20),  the back frame(60) being laterally  expansible and collapsible in operative relation  with the base platform frame(20) when folded over  the base platform frame(20), the first hinge means(31) pivotally connecting the  handle bar(40) to the second   links (23)    as pivotal  movement for pivotally connecting the base platform  frame(20) to the back   frame (60)    and provided with  movement compensating means for compensating for the  expanding or collapsing movement of the pair of  second links(23) relative to each other so as to  be serviceable as the pivotal movement,  the pair of second hinge means(32) pivotally connecting  the first links(22) to the third   links(5c)    as said  pivotal movement and provided with   movement     compensating means for compensating for the operative  ly related expanding or collapsing movement of the pa  ir of the first   links (22)    relative to each other and  of the pair of the third links(5o) relative to each  other so as to be serviceable as said pivotal  movement, the expanding   means(70)    for holding both the frames(20),  (60) in a laterally expanded position and for  permitting the back   frame (60)    to independently retain  the shape to which the back frame(60) is expanded  laterally along with the base platform frame(20)  as folded over the base platform frame(20),  also  when the back   frame(b0)    is in its unfolded position  approximately at right angle with the base platform    frame(20),  the pair of wheels(82) being mounted on the first  links(22) to the rear of'the position where the  third link(50) is pivotally connected to the  first link(22), and  none of a pair of side assemblies provided on opposite  sides of the carrier for holding both the frames(20),  (60) approximately at a right angle with each other  in an unfolded position, each of the side assemblies  including a flexible slanting brace having one end  connected to a front portion of the base platform  frame(20) and the other end connected to a lower  portion of the back frame(60).    2. a portable luggage carrier as defined in claim 1 wherein the handle bar(40) is telescopic and comprises an upper   rod(42)    at least one tubular intermediate rod(43),(43a),(43b) having a larger diameter than the upper rod(42) and a tubular lower rod(44) having a larger diameter than the intermediate rod(43),   (43a), (43b).       3. a portable luggage carrier as defined in claim 2 wherein the upper rod(42) and the intermediate   rod(43)    have a larger length than the lower rod(44) so as to be   projectable    from the lower end of the lower rod(44) when inserted into the lower rod(44).    4. a portable luggage carrier as defined in clam 2 wherein the third links(50) are pivoted to a first sliding member(51) slidably fitting around the lower   rod(44).       5. a portable luggage carrier as defined in claim 1 wherein each of the second   links(23)    includes  an extension extending from its end portion pivoted to the first link(22), and the base platform   frame (20)    forms a double x-frame when laterally expanded.    6. a portable luggage carrier as defined in claim 5 wherein a flexible luggage restraining   strap(90)    extends from the handle bar(40) approximately to the ends of the extensions of the pair of second   links (23)    and is in the form of an inverted v-shape between the handle bar(40) and the base platform   frame (20).       7. a portable luggage carrier as defined in claim 1 wherein the expanding means(70) comprises a toggle joint and a pair of fifth links(73), the toggle joint comprising a second sliding member(71) slidable on the handle bar(40) below the position where the third links(50) are connected to the handle bar(40), and a pair of fourth links(72) each having one end pivoted to the second sliding member(71) and the other end pivoted to one of the third links(50) near the position where the third link(50) is pivotally connected to the first link(22), the pair of fourth links(72) being angularly expansible and collapsible, the pair of fifth   links (73)    each having one end pivotally connected to the lower portion of the handle bar(40) and the other end pivoted to the midportion of one of the third links(50),  the pair of fifth links(73) being angularly expansible and collapsible.    8. a portable luggage carrier as defined in claim 1 wherein the   wheels (82)    are mounted on the first links(22) so as to be positioned on lateral side portions thereof when the base platform frame(20) is in a horizontal position.      9. a portable luggage carrier as defined in claim 8 wherein each of the   wheels (82)    is so positioned that when the base platform frame(20) is in its horizontal position, the vertical line through the center point of the ground engaging surface of the   wheel (82)    approximately intersects the longitudinal center line of the luggage supporting portion of the first link(22).     10. a portable luggage carrier as defined in claim 1 wherein a flexible suspending   strap(120)    for use on the shoulder or by the hand has one end connected approximately to a front portion of the base platform   frame(20)    and the other end connected approximately to a portion of the base platform frame(20) or of the back   frame (60)    wherever distant from the front portion of the base platform   frame (20).       11. a portable luggage carrier as defined in claim 10 wherein when suspending the carrier and seen vertically from thereabove, the suspending   strap(120)    is positioned to substantially equally divide the base platform frame(20).  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
