<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0015671
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800917
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
F16K-15/00 F16K-15/20 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
tyre valve.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
multi screw parts coventry limgb<sep>multi screw parts (coventry) limited<sep>multi screw parts (coventry) limitedstation roadcoleshill, birmingham, b46 1jtgb<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
taylor robert victorgb<sep>taylor, robert victor<sep>taylor, robert victor974 warwick roadsolihullgb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a tyre valve suitable for cycles is formed of two main  parts (10, 16), a base member (10) attachable to the tyre  or inner tube and a valve member (16) fitting into and se­ cured to the base member (10).  the valve member (16)  is screwed into the base member (10) and is turned by a  tool which fits into the inlet end (29) of the valve member  (16).  the valve member (16) projects beyond the base  member (10) to provide an inlet (27) for connecting a  source of compressed gas.  valve means (34, 36) carried  by the valve member (16) retains gas in the tyre.  the  screw-threaded portion (19) of the valve member (16) for  connecting to the base member (10) lies intermediate of  its length.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
tyre valve this invention relates to tyre valves and in particular to tyre valves suitable for use as a cycle tyre valve. cycle tyre valves which are currently used are generally of multi-part construction requiring four or five parts which are assembled together when fitted, see, for example, british patent 713,032. moreover the parts have to be taken apart in removing the tyre from the wheel. many other tyre valves have also been proposed. for example there is disclosed in british patent 351,083 a tyre valve in which an inner valve member is located in a base member by screwthreaded engagement but the valve member is of two-part construction incorporating a ball joint so that turning of the threaded portion does not rotate the other part of the valve. in british patent 197,591 there is disclosed another valve of multi-part construction which attempts to make use of a screwthreaded connection between a base member and a valve member. none of these prior valves have solved the problem of providing a valve of simple construction which is efficient in use, cheap to manufacture, satisfactory to inflate and deflate, and is easily repairable. an object of the invention is to provide a tyre valve which is simple to make and combines several of the above-mentioned desirable attributes. according to one aspect of the invention a tyre valve comprises a base member having attachment means at one end for attaching the member to a tyre or tyre inner tube, a hollow valve member arranged to fit coaxially within the base member in screw-threaded engagement therewith to connect the base member and valve member together, the valve member incorporating valve means whereby compressed gas introduced through the valve member is retained in the tyre or tube, one end of the valve member projecting beyond the base member to constitute an inlet for the compressed gas and said one end having means for connecting said end to a source of compressed gas, said one end of the valve member having an internal cross-section shaped to receive a turning tool for rotating the valve member relative to the base member. preferably the hollow valve member is formed as an integral unit and carries the valve means. conveniently the base member has an internal axial opening extending through the member, the opening having a cylindrical portion adjacent the attachment means of smaller diameter than an outer screwthreaded portion in which the valve member is rotatably received and at the junction between the cylindrical portion and screw-threaded portion of said opening is a shoulder which engages with sealing means on the valve member sealing the valve member in the base member. the outer diameter of the valve member is at a maximum at said one end of the valve member remote from the attachment means and said one end has an outer diameter substantially equal to the maximum outer diameter of the base member. according to another aspect of the invention a replaceable valve member for the tyre
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims   1. a tyre valve comprising a base member having  attachment means at one end for attaching the  member to a tyre or tyre inner tube, a hollow valve  member arranged to fit coaxially within the base  member in screw-threaded engagement therewith to  connect the base member and valve member together,  the valve member incorporating valve means whereby  compressed gas introduced through the valve  member is retained in the tyre or tube, one end of  the valve member projecting beyond the base member  to constitute an inlet for the compressed gas and  said one end having means for connecting said end  to a source of compressed gas, characterised in that  said one end (27) of the valve member (16; 40) has  an internal cross-section (29) shaped to receive a  turning tool for rotating the valve member (16)  relative to the base member (10).   2. a tyre valve according to claim 1 characterised in  that the hollow valve member (16; 40) is formed as  an integral unit and carries the valve means  (33, 34, 35, 36, 37; 14).   3. a tyre valve according to claim 1 or 2 characterised  in that the base member (10) has an internal axial  opening extending through the member, the opening  having a cylindrical portion (18) adjacent the  attachment means (11) of smaller diameter than an  outer screw-threaded portion (25) in which the  valve member (16; 40) is rotatably received.   4. a tyre valve according to claim 3 characterised in  at the junction between the cylindrical portion  (18) and screw-threaded portion (25) of said    opening is a shoulder (24) which engages with  sealing means (23) on the valve member (16; 40)  sealing the valve member in the base member.   5. a tyre valve according to any one of the preceding  claims characterised in that the outer diameter  of the valve member is at a maximum at said one  end (27; 49) of the valve member (16; 40) remote  from the attachment means (11) and said one end  has an outer diameter substantially equal to the  maximum outer diameter of the base member (10).   6. a tyre valve according to any one of the preceding  claims characterised in that said one end (27; 49)  of the valve member (16; 40) has an internal  opening (29; 50) of hexagonal section extending  axially of the valve for receiving said tool.   7. a tyre valve according to any one of the preceding  claims characterised in that the attachment means  (11) is in the form of a resilient flanged member  secured to the end of the base member remote from  the valve member, the flanged member having a  cylindrical-section portion (13) arranged to be a  press fit in an opening in a wheel rim in which  the valve is to be located, the outer diameter of  said cylindrical-section portion being greater  than the maximum diameter of the base member (10)  and of the valve member (16; 40).   8. a tyre valve according to any one of the preceding  claims characterised in that the valve means  includes a spring-biased rod (33) extending  axially through the valve member (16) and having  an obturating member (36) at one end, the    obturating member being urged towards a valve  closed position in which the obturating member  engages the valve member and the rod and  obturating member being movable against the spring  bias (37) to release gas from the valve or to  allow gas to enter and pass through the valve.     9. a tyre valve according to any one of claims 1-7  characterised in that the valve means includes a  resilient sleeve (44) located about an opening  (42) in the valve member (40) to act as an  obturating member and allow the passage of gas  through the valve member and the opening in one  direction only.   10. a replaceable valve member for the tyre valve  according to claims 1-9 comprising a hollow valve  member having an outer screw-threaded portion  intermediate of its length, and valve--means  whereby compressed gas is introduced through the  valve member for retention in the tyre,  characterised by an internal cross-section (29, 50)  towards one end (27; 49) shaped to receive a tool  for rotating the valve member (16; 40) relative  to the base member (10) during attachment to the  base member.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
