<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0012464
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800625
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B29C-70/08 B29C-67/00 B29C-70/00 D01G-1/04 B29C-70/50 B29C-57/00 B29C-70/04 D01G-1/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
a process and an apparatus for the manufacture of a fibre-reinforced plastics sheet material, the plastics sheet material obtained by this process and the objects formed therefrom.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
akzo nv nl<sep>akzo n.v.<sep>akzo n.v.velperweg 76nl-6824 bm arnhemnl<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
hutzezon fritsnl<sep>hutzezon, frits<sep>hutzezon, fritskemmenadestraat 20nl-6825 ev arnhemnl<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
the invention relates to a process for manufacturing  a plastics sheet material reinforced with organic fibres,  such as polyester fibres.  a large number of equispaced  parallel yarn or thread bundles (6) are fed to a cutter roll  (10) and a cooperating pressure roll (11).  during a cut­ ting movement the cutting edges of the knives (11) make  a movement both in axial and in radial direction of the cut­ ter roll, which has a width of at least 100 cm.  the thread  bundles are cut into fibres (30) at such a distance from the  plastics sheet to be formed that the fibres are deposited on  a still plastic matrix (12) in the form of substantially un­ opened fibre bundles.  the sheet material (12, 15, 30) ob­ tained by this method has favourable mechanical and phys­ ical properties, particularly because the reinforcing fibres  are very uniformly distributed.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
a process and an apparatus for the manufacture of a fibrereinforced plastics sheet material, the plastics sheet material obtained by this process and the objects formed therefrom. the invention relates to a process for the manufacture of a plastics sheet material formed from a resincontaining matrix and reinforced with synthetic organic fibres in which process a large number of equispaced thread bundles which are placed adjacent to each other across the width of the sheet to be formed are fed to a rotary cutter roll extending transversely of the sheet and positioned above it, with the aid of which roll the thread bundles are cut into fibres which as they drop on a plastic matrix are distributed across the width thereof, after which the fibres deposited on the matrix are covered with another layer of said matrix and the resulting plastics fibre-containing sheet material is subjected to an aftertreatment. the invention also comprises an apparatus for the manufacture of a plastics sheet material reinforced with fibres. a process and an apparatus as indicated above are known from the canadian patent specification 625 175. this known process is intended in the first place for manufacturing glass-fibre reinforced panels. in addition to glass fibres this specification mentions other materials, such as nylon. although with this known process reasonable results can probably be obtained for glass fibres, it has been found that this known process is unsuitable for the manufacture of sheet material reinforced with synthetic organic fibres such as those of polyester or nylon. particularly when in the known process use is made of polyester fibres, they will drop on the plastic resin mass in an entirely opened state, i.e. as separate pieces of filament. all the fibres together will consequently take up such a large surface area that the still plastic matrix is entirely covered by it and the distance between the matrix layers will become too great in that the intermediate fibre layer will be too voluminous to obtain the desired m2-weights. when the next layer is deposited, it will not come into contact with the lower layer because of the latter being entirely covered by the loose fibres. the resulting endproduct will be of poor quality in that it consists as it where of two poorly adhering halves. these last-mentioned difficulties cannot be solved by reducing the percentage of reinforcing fibres, no sufficient reinforcing effect being obtained below a certain minimum percentage of reinforcing fibres. it has further been found that with the use of the known process and apparatus interruptions will readily occur as a result of the yarn bundles no longer being properly cut. the present invention has for its object to provide a process of the type indicated above which no longer displays the afore-mentioneddrawbacks. the process according to the invention is characterized in that during the cutting movement the cutting edges of the knives move both in axial and in radial direction of the cutter roll, and the adjacent thread bundles extend over an axial
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims    1. a process for the manufacture of a plastics sheet material formed from a resin-containing matrix and reinforced with synthetic organic fibres, in which process a large number of thread bundles which are placed adjacent to each other across the width of the sheet to be formed are fed to a rotary cutter roll extending transversely of the sheet and positioned above it, with the aid of which roll the thread bundles are cut into fibres which as they drop on a plastic matrix are distributed across the width thereof, after which the fibres deposited on the matrix are covered with another layer of said matrix and the resulting plastics fibre-containing sheet material is subjected to an aftertreatment, characterized in that during the cutting movement the cutting edges of the knives move both in axial and in radial direction of the cutter roll,  and the adjacent thread bundles extend over an axial length of the cutter roll of 100 cm or more, and the cutting of the thread bundles into fibres is carried out at such a distance from the plastics sheet material to be formed that the freshly cut fibres drop on the still plastic matrix substantially in the unopened state in the form of fibre bundles.    2. a process according to claim 1, characterized in that the axial length of the axial component of the cutting movement is not more than 1 - 5 cm, and the radial component of the cutting movement is not longer   than 5    - 20 mm.    3. a process according to one or more of the preceding claims, characterized in that between the beginning and the end of said cutting movement the ratio between the axial and the radial velocity components of the composite cutting movement is variable.    4. a process according to claim 3, characterized in that under the influence of the contact of the knives with the bed of filaments the ratio between the axial and the  radial velocity components of the composite cutting movement first increases and subsequently decreases.    5. a process according to claim 1 or   a;    characterized in that the adjacent thread bundles extend over an axial length of the cutter roll of 100 to 500 cm, preferably 100 to 200 cm.    6. a process according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that use is made of reinforcing fibres of polyester.    7. an apparatus for cutting thread bundles destined for use in the process according to claims 1 - 6, which apparatus is formed by a frame containing a rotably supported cutter roll, provided with a number of knives distributed around its circumference and substantially extending in axial direction of the cutter roll, which apparatus is characterized in that guide elements are provided which cooperate with the knives or the knife holders and periodically impart to the separate knives a cutting movement having a component in axial and a component in radial direction of the cutter roll.    8. an apparatus according to claim 7, characterized in that the knives with knife holders extend over an axial length of the cutter roll of 100 cm or more and the knives with the knife holders are mounted for radial and axial movement   in a    slot by means of a support.    9. an apparatus according to claim 8, characterized in that the support is formed by one or mote elastic elements which are so constructed that they can exert on the knives only a substantially radially and outwardly directed force.    10. an apparatus according to one or more of the claims 7-9, characterized in that each of the knives or the knife holders has its one end urged by spring pressure into direct or  indirect contact with a stationary guide element 22 serving to guide the axial movement of the knives, and the knife holder 18 and the cutter roll 10 are provided with cooperating guide elements 24, 25 for imparting the radial move   ment    to the knife holders during said   ax#al movement.        11. an apparatus according to one or more of the claims 7 - 10, characterized in that the cutter roll and the cooperating pressure roll have an axial length of 100 to 500 cm, and preferably of 100 to 200 cm, and are placed on a machine for the manufacture of fibre-reinforced synthetic sheet material near the point where the fibres are to be introduced into the still plastic synthetic compound.    12. fibre-reinforced plastics sheet material made by the process of one or more of the claims 1-6.    13. shaped objects made from the plastics sheet material according to claim 12.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
