<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0012743
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800625
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
F15B-13/00 F15B-13/043 F15B-13/044 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
piezoelectric control valve.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
united technologies corpus<sep>united technologies corporation<sep>united technologies corporation united technologies building 1, financial plazahartford, ct 06101us <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
linebrink kail lesterus<sep>smith lawrence sidneyus<sep>linebrink, kail lester<sep>smith, lawrence sidney<sep>linebrink, kail lester6043 derr runmiddletown, ohio 45042us<sep>smith, lawrence sidney39 overlook terracesimsbury - connecticut 06070us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a piezoelectric fluid control valve comprises a jet pipe  (14) whose position in one axis is controlled by a piezoelec­ tric actuator (22) mechanically connected to the jet pipe  (14).  the fluid output from the jet pipe nozzle (16) is nor­ mally positioned between a pair of control ports (28, 30)  whereby fluid divides evenly between the ports.  energiza­ ton of the piezoelectric actuator (22) by applying a voltage  thereto moves the jet pipe (14) thereby increasing the  pressure at one port and decreasing the pressure at the  other port.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
piezoelectric control valve this invention relates to a control valve, and specifically to a valve in which fluid flowing through a jet pipe is continuously varied between two control ports by energization of a pair of piezoceramic actuator sheets mechanically connected to the jet pipe. the difference in pressure between the two control ports may be used to regulate the position of a servo actuator. advances in gas turbine technology have resulted in demands for more and more control functions to such an extent that full authority electronic controls have been developed. an advanced variable cycle engine may require as many as twelve actuation loops for engine geometry and main and augmenter fuel flow control. advances in microprocessor and other electronic technology resulting in more functional capability at lower electrical power are offset by increased power requirements as more servo functions are added. increased electrical power requirements are particularly detrimental to engine mounted electronic controls that must regulate power supplied for servo control since this results in an additional heat load for the electronic package. the present invention provides a low wer electro* hydraulic control valve suitable for operation in engines and which may be operated using contaminated fuel or other fluids. the control valve uses piezoelectric elements for actuation of the valve element, such elements requiring lower electrical power and being of lower cost than alternate electromagnetic actuators such as torque motors, stepper motors, or solenoids. a piezoelectric actuator operated in the bending mode also reduces supply voltage requirements. the combination of a piezoelectric element with a jet pipe valve provides a contamination resistant electrohydraulic interface for an electronic servo controller, and when used as a fuel valve is insensitive to magnetic particles suspended in the working fluid. while piezoelectric and piezoceramic elements energized by an electric signal have been used in the past to vary the direction of fluid flow in a pneumatic device as as shown in russian patent 387154, and to switch bistable and multistable fluid devices as shown in u, s. patents 3,266,511, 3,457,933, and 3,771,561, the present invention differs in that it utilizes the bending mode of a piezoceramic device to continuously vary the radial position of a jet pipe valve and thereby continuously vary the relative pressures between two output ports, the pressure difference between the two output ports is then used to control a servo actuator which in turn positions a controlled device, the control is provided in response to a voltage applied to the piezoceramic device, it is therefore an object of this invention to provide a simple, inexpensive and low power-consuming electrohydraulic control valve. another object of this invention is a piezoelectric control valve in which the principal element is a piezoceramic actuator which is connected to and controls the movement of a jet pipe control valve, a further object of this invention is a low power piezoelectric control valve suitable for operation with contaminated fuel, another object of this invention is a control valve which is adapted to respond
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims 1. an electrohydraulic control valve comprising:  a housing,  a jet pipe having a nozzle at one end thereof with the other end connected to an inlet port in said housing, the nozzle end of said jet pipe being adapted for movement within said housing,  means for supplying a pressurized fluid to said jet pipe through said inlet port,  said fluid exiting from said jet pipe through said nozzle,  first and second control ports situated side by side immediately opposite said nozzle whereby the fluid exiting from said jet pipe nozzle passes into said control ports and produces a pressure therein,  first and second passage means conducting the fluid from said respective control ports,  a piezoceramic element secured at one end to said housing and at its opposite end to said jet pipe,  and means for supplying a voltage to said piezoceramic element,  said piezoceramic element being deflected in response to said voltage and moving said jet pipe in a direction to produce a reduction in the fluid flow from said nozzle into one of said control ports and an increase in the fluid flow from said nozzle to the other of said control ports thereby creating a relative pressure change between said ports,  the direction and amount of movement of said jet pipe and the pressure difference between said ports being directly proportional to the polarity and magnitude of said voltage.   2. an electrohydraulic control valve as in claim 1 in which each of said control ports is of the same size and wherein said jet pipe in its undeflected position is located relative to said control ports whereby the fluid exiting from said jet pipe nozzle is directed equally to said control ports whereby the pressure in said control ports is equal.   3. an electrohydraulic control valve as in claim 1 in  which said piezoceramic element comprises two layers of piezoelectric crystal material bonded together.   4. an electrohydraulic control valve as in claim 3 in which said two layers of piezoelectric crystal material are connected electrically in series 5. an electrohydraulic control valve as in claim 3 in which said two layers of piezoelectric crystal material are connected electrically in parallel.   6. an electrohydraulic control valve as in claim 1 in which said jet pipe includes a flexible coupling.   7. an electrohydraulic control valve as in claim 1 and further including a fluid return port in said housing.    8. an electrohydraulic control valve as in claim 1 and including first and second mechanical stop means located in said housing on opposite sides of said jet pipe for preventing deflection of said jet pipe beyond preselected limits, 9. an electrohydraulic control valve as in claim 1 in which said jet pipe nozzle includes first and second flange means extending therefrom in diametrically opposite directions, and in which said piezoceramic element comprises first and second piezoelectric crystal means secured respectively to said first and second flange means.   10. an electrohydraulic control valve as in claim 9 in which each of said piezoelectric crystal means comprises two layers of piezoelectric crystal material bonded together, 11, an electrohydraulic control valve as in claim 1 in which said piezoelectric element comprises two layers of lead zirconate titanate bonded together.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
