<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0006717
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800109
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
G01R-19/165 <main>H03K-13/02</main> G01R-19/17 H03M-1/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
analog to digital converter.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
xerox corpus<sep>xerox corporation<sep>xerox corporationxerox square - 020rochester new york 14644us<sep>xerox corporation<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
handy roland j<sep>handy, roland j.<sep>handy, roland j.8611 paso roblesnorthridge california 91325us<sep>handy, roland j.<sep>handy, roland j.8611 paso roblesnorthridge california 91325us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
an analog to digital converter as implemented by large  scale integrated circuit techniques utilizing charge coupled  device technology.  on a single integrated circuit chip, the  necessary gate and charge packet transfer paths form a cell  which carries out analog to digital conversion.  depending on the  amount of charge transferred from one location to the next two  outputs of the cell denote digital voltage levels indicative of logic  0 or logic 1.  utilizing a plurality of the analog to digital converter cells  with transfer gates on a single integrated circuit chip, a multi-bit  a/d conversion register is constructed.  digital voltage levels  indicative of logic 0's or logic 1's are generated from varying  analog charge levels applied.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
analog to digital converter the invention relates to an analog to digital converter on a single integrated circuit chip utilizing charge transfer technology. chargs-coupled semiconductor devices were first described in an article of similar title as published in the bell system technical journal, volume 49, number 4, 1970, pages 587 to 593. since that time much research has been conducted on ccd's to the present time wherein 64 kilo-bit single chip ccd memories have reached the commercial marketplace. (ieee spectrum, may 1978, page 36). memories are not the only use for ccd's however. ccd's can be utilized in image sensing arrays and also for analog signal processors (electronic design 6, march 15, 1976, page 70). however, the prior art does not show the use of ccd technology to provide an analog to digital converter wherein the actual conversion is accomplished directly on the ccd integrated circuit chip itself. it is an object of the present invention to overcome this deficiency and to provide such an analog to digital converter which is characterised in that an analog to digital converter on a single integrated circuit chip utilizing charge transfer technology, characterised in that it comprises a cell including: input gate means for receiving an input analog signal represented by packets of charge, transfer gate means coupled to said input gate means for transferring any such packets of charge, and floating gate means coupled to said transfer gate means for detecting the presence of charge transferred, an excess of charge transferred, or no charge transferred, the output of said floating gate means being a pair of digital logic voltage signals indicative of these three conditions. such a device reduces the number of ccd and other type integrated circuit chips and increases signal to noise, amplification ratios, etc, due to the fact that the entire analog to digital conversion is done on one device. in a preferred embodiment of the invention, a plurality of said cells are an analog to digital converter as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5 wherein a plurality of said cells are arranged in serial fashion on said single integrated circuit chip in charge transfer proximity to one another to thereby form an analog to digital register of said plurality of cells. as large scale integrated circuit techniques are extensive in the modern technology, construction of more that one such analog to digital conversion circuit on one chip is possible. thus, coupling the ccd a/d conversion cells together by transfer gate technology leads to the construction of a multi-stage analog to digital converter on a single lsi chip utilizing ccd technology. coupling more than one cell to another will allow for multi-bit outputs to be generated in increasing resolution depending on the number of stages. that is, if 16 cells are coupled together, 16 levels of gray can be detected, if used in an imaging system for example, or 16 discrete digital voltage levels can be detected from the input anaolog signals. transfer gates are used
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims   1. an analog to digital converter on a single integrated circuit chip utilizing charge transfer technology, characterized in that it comprises a cell including:  input gate means (a) for receiving an input analog signal represented by packets of charge,  transfer gate means (b), (c) coupled to said input gate means for transferring any such packets of charge, and  floating gate means (fgm), (fgs) coupled to said transfer gate means for detecting the presence of charge transferred, an excess of charge transferred, or no charge transferred, the output of said floating gate means being a pair of digital logic voltage signals indicative of these three conditions.   2. the analog to digital converter as claimed in claim 1, wherein said transfer gate means comprises:  first and second transfer gates in charge packet transfer relationship with said input gate means, said first transfer gate (c) transferring charge in excess of a predetermined charge, and said second transfer gate (b) transferring a charge at or below said predetermined charge, the charge levels being determined by the depletion levels established by applied voltage levels,   (v1,    v2, v3).   3. the analog to digital converter as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein said floating gate means comprises:  a master floating gate (fgm) and a slave floating gate (fgs) in charge packet transfer relationship with said first and second transfer gates (c), (b) respectively, said floating gates having applied thereto a voltage (vs) which is independent from other applied voltages, said master floating gate (fgm) inducing a change in the potential in said slave floating gate (fgs) whereby said slave floating gate (fgs) blocks the transfer of charge from said second transfer gate (b) when said master floating gate   (fgh)    detects an excess charge transferred by said first transfer gate (c).     4. the analog to digital converter as claimed in claim 3 wherein said transfer gate means further comprises a third transfer gate (d) in charge packet transfer relationship with said second transfer gate (b), said third transfer gate   (d)    transferring any charge remaining in said second transfer gate (b) that may have been blocked by said slave floating gate (fgs), the charge level on said third transfer gate (d) being determined by the depletion level established by an applied voltage level (v4).   5. the analog to digital converter as claimed in claim 3 or claim 4 wherein said voltage (vs) applied to said master and slave floating gates is applied via a voltage switched fieldeffect transistor (fet).   6. an analog to digital converter as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein a plurality of said cells are arranged in serial fashion on said single integrated circuit chip in charge transfer proximity to one another to thereby form an analog to digital register of said plurality of cells.   7. an analog to digital converter as claimed in claim 6 including an additional transfer gate between each adjacent pair of said cells to effect charge transfer from cell to cell, whereby charges in excess of that capable of being transferred within the first cell in the series are transferred to the second cell by said transfer gate and so on through the series until all the incoming charge has been transferred within the cells, the output of those cells to which charge has been transferred from the preceding cell being of a different logic configuration from the output of those cells to which no charge was tranferred, thereby indicating a digital logic signal representative of the input analog charge level.      8. the analog to digital converter as claimed in claim 7 wherein the output signals from said register are indicative of a level of gray if the input analog charge applied to said converter is representative of an image signal of varying shading levels.   9. the analog to digital converter as claimed in claim 7 wherein the output signal is a digital logic representation of the applied analog charge level according to the ratio s/n, where s is the number of the stage in the converter wherein the output signals of the first cells of the converter change in relation to the remaining cells of the converter, and n is the number of cells in the converter.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
