<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0005077
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19791031
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B29C-47/12 B29C-47/36 B29F-3/00 B29C-47/32 B29C-47/92 B29K-7/00 B29C-47/68 B29L-7/00 B29B-7/00 B29C-47/58 B29C-47/52 B29H-3/00 <main>B29D-7/02</main> B29K-27/18 B29C-47/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
extrusion apparatus and method of use thereof.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
uniroyal ltdca<sep>uniroyal ltd.<sep>uniroyal ltd.895 don mills roadontario m3c 1w3ca<sep>uniroyal ltd.<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
giesbrecht george gerhardt<sep>giesbrecht, george gerhardt<sep>giesbrecht, george gerhardt46 buttonwood drivekitchener ontarioca<sep>giesbrecht, george gerhardt<sep>giesbrecht, george gerhardt46 buttonwood drivekitchener ontarioca<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
in extrusion apparatus of the type having a generally  cylindrical roller (40), a stationary die head surface (24)  confronting the roller (40) and defining therewith an extrudate  chamber (50), and means for rotating the roller (40) to  force material through the chamber (50) to an extrudate  shaping orifice (52) defined by the roller (40) and a downstream  portion of the die head (23), a bearing pad (27 and 28)  is interposed between the roller (40) and the die head (20).   the roller (40) is biased against the bearing pad (27 and 28)  so that the pad (27 and 28) serves to space the roller (40)  from the die head (20) to accurately control clearance  between the die head (20) and roller (40) at the extrudate  shaping orifice (52).  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
extrusion apparatus and method of use there & this invention relates to extrusion apparatus and the method of use thereof. extruders are normally used for the production of continuous strips having substantially constant cross-section. the material to be formed or "extru- date" is fed into the extruder,brought to a fluid or semi-fluid condition by heat, mechanical agitation or a combination of heat and mechanical agitation and forced out through an orifice having a shape generally corresponding to the.cross-section desired in the finished strip. one type of extrusion apparatus is the single roller die extruder, which includes a generally cylindrical roller and a stationary die head. the die head has a surface which confronts an arcuate portion of the cylindrical surface of the roller and cooperates with the roller to define an extrudate chamber. means are provided for introducing an extrudate into this extrudate chamber. the roller is rotated about its axis to force the extrudate in a dor¯rnstreem direction towards a extrudate shaping orifice defined by a downstream portion of the confronting surface of the die head and the surface of the roller itself. the direction downstream, as used in this dis closure, should be understood to mean the direction towards which the surface of the roller moves in its rotation, thule the term upstream should be understood to mean the opposite- direction. the terms axial and axially will also be used in this disclosure and should be under stood as referring to the axis of rotation of the roller. as can be appreciated, the thickness of the strip issuing from a single roller die extruder is controlled, at least in part, by the clearance between the stationary die head and the roller at the extrudate shaping orifice. in the single roller die extruders of the prior art, such as those set forth in united states patents 3,871,810 and 3,869v304, the roller is positioned by the frame of the apparatus in proximity to the stationary die head so that the clearance between the surface of the die head which forms part of extrudate shaping orifice and the roller will yield the desired strip thickness and shape. although such apparatus is capable of producing satisfactory strips, it is difficult to accurately control the thickness of the finished strip produced by such apparatus. the material in the extrudate chamber between the roller and the die head is under substantial pressure. although the exact pressure in the chamber is unknown, it is believed to be about 176,000 kg per square meter at the point immediately upstream from the orifice. in an extruder of typical size, this extrudate pressure acting on the roller and die head creates a force on the order of 1361 kg tending to deflect the apparatus frame and move the roller away from the die head. this movement of the roller makes it difficult to accurately maintain the clearance between the roller and the die head, and therefore makes it difficult to control the thickness of the finished strip issuing
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:    1. extrusion apparatus comprising a generally cylindrical roller (40); a stationary die head having a surface (24, 25) confronting said roller over a portion of the arcuate surface (48) thereof to define a chamber (50) between said die head and said roller; means (30) for supplying an extrudate in a fluid condition to said chamber;  means (60, 61, 62, 63) for rotating said roller about its axis to force said extrudate in a downstream direction through said chamber so that at least the extrudate in a downstream portion (51) of said chamber is under pressure, a downstream portion of said confronting surface of said die head cooperating with the surface of said roller to define an extrudate shaping orifice (52) at the downstream end of   said amber;    means (45, 46, 47) for biasing said roller towards said die head and a bearing surface (114, 115) designed to accept the reaction forces between said roller and said die head when said roller is so biased.    2. extrusion apparatus as claimed in claim 1 in which the material of said bearing surface and its confronting element are selected so that the mutually contacting surfaces thereof will form a bearing operable without the application of external lubrication.    3. extrusion apparatus as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 in   whizz    said bearing surface   (114,      115)    is a  surface of a bearing pad (27, 28) interposed between said roller and said die head and spacing said roller from said die head.    4. extrusion apparatus as claimed in claim 3 in which at least two bearing pads are interposed between said roller and said die head and said pads are spaced axially from one another.    5. extrusion apparatus as claimed in claim 4 in which said pads form the axially spaced lateral boundaries of at least a portion of said chamber.    6. extrusion apparatus as claimed in claim 5 in which said pads additionally define the axially spaced lateral boundaries (54', 55') of said extrudate shaping orifice.    7. extrusion apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 4 to 6 in which said pads are affixed, preferably in releasable manner, to said die head.    8. extrusion apparatus as claimed in claim 7 in which said roller has a surface formed of material, for example metal, which is harder than the pad material, for   example    a composition of nylon 6/6 and molybdenum disulfide or a composition including   polytetrafluoroethylene.         extrusion    apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims in which said apparatus includes a frame (10) and a bearing block (41) slidably mounted to said frame, said die head is mounted to said frame and said roller is  rotatably   mounted    to said bearing block, and said means for biasing said roller towards said die head includes means (45, 46,47) for biasing said bearing block toward said die head.    10. extrusion apparatus as claimed in claim 9, wherein said die head includes a base element (21) mounted to said frame, an upstream element (22) releasably mounted to said base element and a downstream element (23) releasably mounted to said upstream element, an upstream portion of said chamber is defined by a surface (24) of said upstream element confronting said roller and said extrudate shaping orifice is defined by a surface (25) of said downstream element confronting said roller.    11. extrusion apparatus as claimed in claim 10, insofar as dependent on claim 4, wherein s-aid bearing pads include two upstream bearing pads (27) which are affixed to said upstream element and two downstream bearing pads (28) which are affixed to said downstream element so that said upstream and downstream bearing pads constitute two sets of bearing pads spaced axially from each other and lying axially outboard of said chamber on both sides thereof.    12. the improvement as claimed in claim 11, wherein said downstream bearing pads (28') define the axially spaced lateral boundaries (54', 55') of said extrudate  shapinq orifice,and said upstream bearing pads define the axially spaced lateral boundaries of said upstream portion of said chamber.    13. a method of extruding a strip of extrudate including the steps of: feeding the extrudate in fluid condition into a chamber (50) defined by the arcuate surface (48) of a generally cylindrical roller (40) and a confronting surface (24, 25) of a die head; rotating the roller about its axis to carry the extrudate in a downstream direction through the chamber to force the extrudate through an extrudate shaping orifice (52) defined by the roller and a portion (25) of the confronting surface of the die head at the downstream end of the chamber, and, during the rotation of the roller, biasing the roller towards the die head with the reaction forces being accepted by a bearing surface (114,115).    14. a method as claimed in claim   15,    in which   the    bearing surface comprises surfaces of two bearing pads (27)   interposed between the roller and the die head and axially  defining    spaced from one another, the pads axially spaced lateral boundaries of at least a portion of the chamber, and the method further comprises the step of axially confining the extrudate in said portion of the   chamber    by means of the bearing pads.     15. a method as claimed in claim 13 or claim 14 in  which the bearing surface comprises surfaces of two bearing pads (28') interposed between said roller and the downstream portion of said die head and spaced axially from one another so that the bearing pads define the axially spaced lateral boundaries (54', 55') of said extrudate shaping orifice, and the method further comprises the step of forming the lateral boundaries of the strip by contact between the extrudate and the pads at the extrudate shaping orifice.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
