<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0012136
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800625
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
A61B-5/113 A61B-5/11 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
an electro-mechanical transducer for use in a cot or bed to detect body movement.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
frost james king dr<sep>frost, james king, dr.<sep>frost, james king, dr.spring house double creektriabunna tasmaniaau  <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
frost james king dr<sep>frost, james king, dr.<sep>frost, james king, dr.spring house double creektriabunna tasmaniaau<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
an electro-mechanical transducer suitable for use in  a cot bed to detect body movements comprising a resil­ iently compressible assembly which emits noise while  being compressed or expanded and a microphone (12) for  detecting the noise thus produced thereby to permit of  the control of alarm or signal means.   the device is particularly designed to give warning of  cessation of breathing movements of infants while asleep  with the objective of reducing the incidence of so called  "cot deaths".  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
detecting body movements. this invention relates to apparatus for detecting body movements and to alarm or signal means controlled thereby and, while not restricted thereto, has been devised primarily with the objective of reducing the incidence of so-called "cot deaths" which now are a major component of the statistics of infant mortality during the first few months of life. while the cause of cot deaths has not yet been clearly established, there are remedial measures which could be taken to prevent or reduce them if the parent or other person in charge of the infant, could quickly become aware that breathing had ceased. however, such deaths usually occur at night, unaccompanied by warning sounds, so that in many cases, some hours elapse before it is discovered that the infant has died. for similar reasons apparatus, primarily intended for monitoring the breathing of a premature infant in a hospital incubator, and which is adapted to sound an alarm if breathing should cease, has already been devised, but such known apparatus is relatively complex and expensive and these disadvantages militate against its use in the home where most cot deaths occur. it is therefore the general object of this invention to provide simple, convenient and relatively inexpensive means for detecting body movements, and to provide alarm or signal means for use in conjunction therewith. accordingly, in one aspect the invention provides an electro-mechanical transducer suitable for use in a cot or bed to detect body movements, especially movements of the chest wall, comprising a resiliently compressible assembly which emits no ice while being compressed or expanded, and a microphone for detecting the noise thus produced thereby to permit of the control of alarm or signal means. in use the microphone is connected in circuit with "hold-off" means which prevent activation of one or more associated alarm or signal devices ile the transducer is producing substantially continuous noise. in the event however that such noise should cease for a predetermined short period, e.g., a period of several seconds, the said alarm device or devices, e.g., a lamp and/br a loud-speaker or bell, is or are automatically energized to alert the person in charge. thus an alarm circuit controlled by said holdoff means, may include a red signal lamp, and a loudspeaker while also means may be provided whereby other signal means, e.g., a green signal lamp, is automatically energized when the transducer is in use and is functioning normally. in order however that the invention may be more fully understood, one preferred form thereof is hereinafter described with reference to the accompanying drawings in which:- fig. 1 is a perspective view of a transducer responsive to breathing movements. fig. 2 is a sectional view in plan of the transducer and is drawn to an enlarged scale. fig. 3 is a perspective view of a jacket suitable for attaching the transducer to an infant; and fig. 4 is a circuit diagram of one form of alarm apparatus for use in conjunction with the transducer.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1. an   clectro-mechanical    transducer suitable   for use in a cot or bed to detect body movements comprising a resiliently compressible assembly   which    emits noise while being compressed or   expanded    and a microphone for detecting   the    noise thus produced thereby to permit of the control of alarm or signal means.   2.   ion    electro-mechanical transducer according to claim 1,   comprising    a back plate   supportiwj    the microphone, a flexible cover supported by and extending in front of the back plate and resiliently compressible packing material enclosed between the back plate and the cover, said packing material being composed at least in part of sheet   material,      e.g.,      regenerated    cellulose or paper, which emits noise while being bent or crumpled.   3. an electro-mechanical   transducer    according to claim 1 comprising a back plate having the microphone supported thereon and projecting   forwardly    therefrom, a flexible cover attached to the   back    plate and extending in front thereof thereby to   define    an intervening space and a resiliently compressible packing arranged within said space, said packing comprising a plurality of flexible sheets   of -material    which have   the    property of emitting  noise while being bent or crumpled, and a plurality of sheets of resiliently   compressible    material all such sheets being disposed generally parallel to the back plate,  and at least one of said sheets of resiliently compressible material being arranged between two adjacent sheets of said flexible noise emitting material.   4. an electro-mechanical transducer according to claim 1, 2 or 3 enclosed within a pouch formed of p.v.c. or other suitable flexible and waterproof material capable of being maintained in a clean and hygienic condition.   5. an electro-mechanical transducer according to   claim    1, 2, 3 or 4 in combination with alarm of signal means comprising, an alarm or signal device, means operable to activate said alarm or signal device and hold-off means controlled by the said microphone thereby to prevent activation of said alarm or-signal device while sound of a predetermined intensity is being received by the microphone.   6. an electro-mechanical transducer and alarm or signal means according to claim 5 including delay means operable to prevent activation of said alarm or signal device until the lapse of a predetermined period during which sound of said predetermined intensity has not been received by the microphone.     7. an electro-mechanical transducer and alarm or signal means according to claim 5 wherein said holdoff means comprises an electronic trigger in circuit with an inverting amplifier which has no output while the trigger is receiving an input from the microphone and vice versa, and means controlled by the output from the inverting amplifier for causing said alarm or signal device to be activated.   8. an electro-mechanical transducer and alarm or signal means according to claim 7 wherein the inverting amplifier is connected to a pulsing oscillator which in turn is connected to an output stage thereby to transmit a pulsed audio frequency signal to the latter when the inverting amplifier has an output, thereby to cause said alarm or signal device to be activated.   9. an electro-mechanical transducer and alarm or signal means according to claim 5, 6 or 7 including means whereby a monitor telephone or a sound recorder or the like may be connected in the circuit to enable the breathing sounds to be heard or recorded.    10. an electro-mechanical transducer and alarm or signal means according to claim 5, 6, 7 or 8 including a storage battery for energising said alarm or signal means, means for indicating the condition of the battery, and switch means operable to isolate said alarm or signal means from the battery consequent upon connecting recharging means in circuit therewith.     11. an electro-mechanical transducer substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to figs. 1 and 2 of the accompanying drawings.   12. an electro-mechanical transducer in combination with alarm or signal means substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to figs. 1, 2 and 4 of the accompanying drawings.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
