<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0009993
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800416
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B05D-1/26 D06N-7/00 D06N-3/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
improvements relating to methods and apparatus for plastic coating sheet material.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
plasticisers enggb <sep>plasticisers engineering limited <sep>plasticisers engineering limited drighlington near bradford, bd11 1bygb<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
slack ian davidgb<sep>slack, ian david<sep>slack, ian davidthe old vicarage drighlingtonbd11 1lsgb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
the present specification discloses a method and  apparatus for applying a coating of a plastics material to  sheet-like material which is pervious to air, for example,  the back of a carpet.  basically plastics material (p) is  extruded onto the back of the carpet (1) and the carpet (1)  is passed over suction means (3) which draws the plastic  material (p) against and between the fibres of the carpet  base (1).  the composite (1,p) is then cooled to solidify the  plastics material and bond the plastic to the carpet back  (1).  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
descriptior "improvements relating to methods and apparatus for plastic coating sheet iaterial" the present invention relates to a method and apparatus for applying a coating of a plastics material to a sheet-like material which is pervious to air, nany types of sheet or film material can be plastic-coated by passing them underneath an extrusion die so that a film of molten plastic is spread over the surface of the material being coated. immediately after the molten plastics applied, the material passes between a pair of nip rollers. usually one roller is rubber-covered and the other is a metal roller which has water circulating therethrough to remove the heat from the plastic. the pressure of the nip rollers ensures a bonding of the plastic on to the other material. if this known method is used for coating the back of carpets of any type, certain problems arise. firstly, due to the sponginess of the carpet material, it is not possible to get the plastics coating to adhere to the back of the carpet without the nip rollers flattening the pile on the carpet. further, the plastics coating tends to lie on the top of the fibres projecting from the back of the carpet and a very poor bond is obtained i.e., when the plastic has cooled it can be easily peeled off. the aim of the present invention is to provide a method and apparatus which enables a plastics coating to be satisfactorily bonded to the back cf a carpet without damaging the carpet or to any other sheet material which is pervious to air e.g. filter paper or a woven fabric. according to the present invention there is provided a method of applying a coating of a plastics material to a sheet of material which is pervious to air, comprising the steps of extruding molten plastics material onto the sheet of material and passing the material over suction means to thereby draw the plastics material against the material. according to a further aspect of the present invention there is provided a machine for applying a coati g of a plastics material to a sheet of material which is pervious to air, said machine comprising an extrusion die for dispensing molten plastics material onto the sheet of material as it passes therebeneath, and suction means arranged beneath the path of the material for drawing the plastics material against the sheet of pervious material0 in a preferred embodiment of the present invention the suction means comprises a box, the top of which has a perforated metal grid with a polished surface, a vacuum fan being arranged to draw air through the grid into the box so that as the sheet material is passed over the box, air is drawn through the material. preferably, the box with the material sliding over it, is placed directly beneath the extrusion die from which the molten plastics material flows. thus the film of plastics material is drawn onto the mater- ial by the air flow, the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
    clai:is     1. a method of applying a coating of a plastics material to a sheet of material which is pervious to air, comprising the steps of extruding molten plastics material (p) onto the sheet of material (1) and passing the sheet of material over suction means (3) to thereby draw the plastics material (p) against the sheet of material   (i).       2. a method as claimed in claim 1, when said sheet of material (1) is a carpet, the plastics material (p) being applied to the back of the carpet.    3. a method as claimed in claim 1 or 2, characterised in that the sheet of material (1) is passed over the suction means (3) at a speed which is greater than the speed at which the plastics material (p) is extruded onto said sheet of material   (1).       4. a method as claimed in claim 1, 2 or 3, characterised in that the plastics material (p) is cooled after being passed over said suction means (3).    5. a method as claimed in claim 1, 2 or 3, characterised in that the sheet material   (1)    and plastics coating (p) are vacuum formed to a desired shape after passing over said suction means (3).    6. a method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterised in that the plastics material (p) is an extrudable thermoplastic material.    7. a method as claimed in claim 6, characterised in that the plastics material (p) incorporates a filler.    8. a method as claimed in claim 6 or 7, characterised in that the plastics material (p) incorporates a foaming agent.    9. a machine for applying a coating of a plastics material to a sheet of material which is pervious to air, especially carpets, said machine comprising an extrusion die (2) for dispensing molten plastics material (p) onto the sheet of material (1) as it passes     therebeneath,    and suction means (3) arranged beneath the path of the material   (1)    for drawing the plastics material (p) against the sheet of pervious material (1).    10. a machine as claimed in claim 9, characterised in that the extrusion die (2) is arranged so that the initially extruded plastics material makes an acute angle with the surface of said sheet of material (1).    11. a machine as claimed in claim 9 or 10, characterised in that said suction means (3) comprises a vacuum box (4) having a polished, perforated inlet surface (5) through which air is drawn by a fan (6), said sheet of material (1) being passed over said inlet surface (5) when the machine is in use.     12, a machine as claimed in claim 11, characterised in that the extrusion die (2) is located near to the upstream edge of said inlet surface (5) of the vacuum box (4).    13. a machine as claimed in any one of claims 9 to 12, characterised in that cooling means (8,11) are provided downstream of said suction means (3) for cooling the plastics material (p) drawn against said sheet of material   (1)0     14. a machine as claimed in claim 13, characterised in that said cooling means (8,11) is formed by a cooled roller (8), the sheet of material (1) and plastic coating- (p) being passed around said cooled roller (8).    15. a machine as claimed in claim 13, characterised in that a nozzle (11) for producing a stream of cooling gas, acts as the cooling means.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
