<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0009981
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800416
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<main>F16F-15/16</main> F16F-15/173 F16F-15/16 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
improved torsional vibration damper.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
holset engineering cogb<sep>holset engineering company limited<sep>holset engineering company limitedp.o. box a9turnbridge huddersfield, hd1 6rdgb<sep>holset engineering company limited<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
vollett eric malcolm<sep>vollett, eric malcolm<sep>vollett, eric malcolm9 st. mary's crescentnetherthong, huddersfieldgb<sep>vollett, eric malcolm  <sep>vollett, eric malcolm9 st. mary's crescentnetherthong, huddersfieldgb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a tuned viscous torsional vibration damper comprises  an annular hub member (10) adapted for attachment to a  shaft which, in use, is subject to torsional vibration.  an  annular inertia member (24) is wholly located within a  closed annular chamber carried by the hub member and is  journalled for rotation relative to the hub member (10) with  its radial side and circumferential surfaces disposed in  close spaced, face to face relation with opposing surfaces  of the chamber.  a viscous fluid is contained between the  opposing surfaces in shear relation.  the hub (10) has a  plurality of teeth (42) which project radially inwardly into  the annular chamber (20) and into respective circumferen­ tial gaps between adjacent, radially outwardly projecting  teeth on the inertia member.  in order to provide the  damper with a plurality of discrete gas springs effective  between the hub and inertia members, the circumferential  spaces on the two sides of each hub tooth (42) communi­ cate directly with respective angularly spaced, radially  inwardly extending bores (46,48) in the hub member which  contain respective volumes of gas forming said gas  springs.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
description "improved toreional vibratioif dasper'1 the present invention relates to torsional vibration dampers used for damping the torsional vibrations of internal combustion engine crankshafts and other mass elastic shaft systems. various types of torsional vibration damper are in common use, the most effective being those known as tuned dampers. tuned dampers usually comprise an inertia mass resiliently connected to a hub member by metallic or elastomeric tuning spring means, the hub member being adapted for rigid connection to the internal combustion engine crankshaft. the torsional vibration energy imparted to the damper inertia mass by the engine crankshaft during operation is converted into heat energy by damping means in the damper, thereby reducing the vibration amplitudes in the shaft system. vnvious means have been employed for converting the vibration energy imparted to the damper inertia mass into heat energy. where metallic springs have been used to couple the hub member, one common method of achieving the energy conversion has been to utilise the relative movement between the inertia mass and the hub to shear a thin film of viscous fluid, located between the inertia mass and a housing member rigidly attached to the hub member and surrounding the inertia mass in a close shear spaced relationship. where elastomeric spring means have been used, the damping effect of the internal hysteresis of the elastomeric material has been used to effect the energy conversion. alternatively, the energy conversion has been achieved by use of both hysteresis damping and viscous fluid shear damping in combination. various disadvantages are associated with the use of both metallic and elastomeric springs for coupling the inertia mass to the hub member of tuned vibration dampers. where metallic spring means are used, they must be designed to operate at high stress levels and are subject to fatigue failure and, where the ends of the springs are freely located in slots or grooves at their points of attachment, to fretting which results in wear, thereby causing contamination of the damping fluid and eventual failure of the damper. also, frictional effects contribute to the damping effect of the damper but to an incalculable and varying degree, thereby resulting in an unpredictable damper performance. elastomeric springs have a low operating temperature limit which limits their damping capacity, optimum damping being difficult or often impossible to achieve. where the damping is achieved by the combination of hysteresis damping in the elastomeric spring and viscous fluid shear damping, it is possible for reactions to occur between the materials causing degradation of either the viscous damping fluid, the elastomeric material or both components. a further disadvantage resulting from the use of metallic or elastomeric tuning springs is the difficulty of adjusting them for optimum tuning without costly replacement or modification. this disadvantage is most severe when the tuned damper is large or is required for a single engine or for small quantity application. it is also known to use gas springs for effecting damping, such gas springs being arranged to be subjected to periodic compression
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
   chains       1. a tuned viscous torsional vibration damper comprising an annular hub member (10) adapted for attachment to a shaft which, in use, is subject to torsional vibration, an annular inertia member (24) wholly located within a closed annular chamber carried by the hub member and journalled for rotation relative to said hub member (10) with at least one surface being in close spaced, face to face relation with at least one opposing surface of said 'chamber, a viscous fluid contained between said opposing surfaces in shear relation, and gas springs disposed between the hub member and the inertia member to provide a torsionally resilient coupling between the hub and inertia members,  the gas springs being formed by gas volumes   communicating    with circumferential spaces disposed between loosely   intar-    meshing teeth carried by the hub and inertia members, respectively, characterised in that the hub (10) has a plurality of teeth (42) which project radially inwardly into said annular chamber (20) and into respective circumferential gaps between adjacent, radially outwardly projecting teeth on the inertia member, the circumferential spaces on the two sides of each hub tooth (42) communicating directly with respective angularly spaced, radially inwardly extending bores (46,48) in   the    hub member which contain respective volumes of gas forming said gas springs.    2, a damper according to claim 1 in which the individual radial bores (46,48) are arranged such that all gas springs subjected to compression at a given time are coupled together and all gas springs subjected to expansion at that time are coupled together, characterised in that the coupling of the gas springs is effected by way of passages (50,52) whose cross-sectional area is small compared with the cross-sectional area of said radial bores (46,48).    3. a damper according to claim 2, characterised  in that said connecting passages (50,#2) are vented to a location externally of the hub member but within the annular chamber (20).    4. a damper according to claim 1,   2    or 3, characterised by means disposed in the opposed radial side faces of the inertia and hub members (24,10) which limit the relative angular displacement of the latter members (24,10) to a predetermined valve.     5. a damper according to claim 4, characterised in that said means limiting the relative angular displacement of the hub and inertia members comprises a plurality of projections (36) carried by one of said members (24,10) and extending into respective recesses (40) in the other said members, the recesses (40) being laterally oversized in relation to the projections (36) so as to permit said predetermined angular displacement.    6.   x    damper according to claim 5, characterised in that the projections   (36)    are made of a low friction material.    7. a damper according to claim 5 or 6, characterised in that the projections (36) comprise disc-like pads and the oversized recesses (40) are of circular section.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
