<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0009950
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800416
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
C09J-167/00 C09D-5/34 C09J-3/16 C08L-77/00 C08L-67/02 C09J-177/00 C09J-177/12 C08L-77/12 <main>C09J-5/06</main> 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
block copolymer hot melt adhesive composition and method of filling a cavity.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
monsanto cous<sep>monsanto company<sep>monsanto company800 north lindbergh boulevardst. louis missouri 63167us<sep>monsanto company<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
donermeyer donald david<sep>martins joseph galvam<sep>donermeyer, donald david<sep>martins, joseph galvam<sep>donermeyer, donald david67 moss roadspringfield massachusetts 01119us<sep>martins, joseph galvam139 bridle path circleludlow massachusetts 01056us<sep>donermeyer, donald david<sep>martins, joseph galvam<sep>donermeyer, donald david67 moss roadspringfield massachusetts 01119us<sep>martins, joseph galvam139 bridle path circleludlow massachusetts 01056us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
hot melt adhesive compositions comprising a block  copolymer, a particulate mineral reinforcing agent and glass  fiber.  the block copolymer is selected from the group consist­ ing of copolyesters, copolyamides, copoly(esteramides) and  copoly(ether-esters) melting at a temperature above about  150°c.  and having from about 30 to about 70 weight percent of  hard segments and from about 70 to about 30 weight percent  of soft segments.  the weight ratio of block copolymer to  particulate mineral reinforcing agent and glass fiber is in the  range of about 3:7 to about 3:2, the weight ratio of block  copolymer to glass fiber is at least about 3:4, and the weight  ratio of particulate mineral reinforcing agent to glass fiber is in  the range of about 1:3 to about 9:1.  the compositions are  particularly useful for filling voids and cavities in substrates,  which comprise applying excess adhesive composition as a  hot melt into the cavity, spreading the adhesive composition  to fill the cavity, cooling said adhesive composition and there­ after sanding said composition to provide a surface even with  the surrounding substrate.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
block copolymer hot melt adhesvie composition and method of filling a cavity the present invention relates to a hot melt adhesive composition, to a method of filling voids with the adhesive composition and to articles filled or coated with the hot melt adhesive composition. more particularly, it refers to block copolymers containing glass fibers and a particulate mineral reinforcing agent, to a method of filling voids with such compositions and to articles, filled or coated with the compositions. hot melt adhesives are well known in the prior art. these materials are conveniently applied to a substrate in the molten state and upon cooling form an adhesive bond. however, a deficiency common to. most of the hot melt adhesiwsof the prior art is their tendency to soften and flow at elevated temperatures, as, for example, 70 to 1000c. with a resulting loss of bond strength. consequently, these materials are not suitable for use over a broad temperature range. attempts to upgrade the softening and flow temperatures have involved using very high molecular weight resinous materials and/or crosslinking of the resin. these methods have resulted in materials with higher softening points and flow temperatures. however, in most cases the resulting material was not adapted to thermal processing because its higher molecular weight and/or crosslinked structure engendered extremely high application viscosity. thus these materials were not suitable for use as hot melt adhesives. in the manufacture and repair of metal bodies such as automobiles and appliances, solder compositions containing lead are frequently used to fill cavities and voids. these lead solders are extremely dense and can add a significant increment to the weight of the metal body. they present a health hazard which mandates special handling to protect workers engaged in the soldering and cavity filling operations. curable adhesives such as epoxies are generally unsatisfactory for such cavity and void filling applications because they require careful metering of the components to provide good physical properties and bond strength, because they take too long to cure to a sandable state and because they have rather poor weather resistance. conventional hot melt adhesives are also unsatisfactory for cavity and void filling applications because they cannot be sanded rapidly at assembly line speed, they do nto readily accept paint, exhibiting "bleed-throug", and they do not withstand the high temperatures necessary for the subsequent cure of paint overcoats, "bleed-through" or "telegraphing" is the term used to describe the revelation of difference in composition of the substrate when it has been painted, caused by a difference in reflectivity between the painted metal and the painted adhesive composition. u.s. patent 3,650,999 discloses block copolymer comprising hard polyester segments and soft polyamide segments having improved adhesion and high temperature performance obtained by reacting a crystalline polyester, a c18 to c54 polycarboxylic acid and a primary diamine. this poly (ester-amide) in common with other hot melt adhesives has deficiencies in creep resistance at temperatures above 1500c, in the range up to 205be, and above and in shrinkage when the hot melt
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims   what is claimed is:  1. an adhesive composition comprising a block copolymer, a particulate mineral reinforcing agent and glass fiber, characterized wherein said block   copolymer    being a copolyester, copolyamide, copoly(esteramide) or copoly(etherester) melting at a temperature of above   150or.,    said copolymer having from about 30 to about 70 weight percent of hard segments and from about 70 to about 30 weight percent of soft segments, the weight ratio of block copolymer to particulate mineral reinforcing agent and glass fiber being in the range of 3:7 to 3:2, the weight ratio of block copolymer to glass fiber is at least 3:4 and the weight ratio of particulate mineral reinforcing agent to glass fiber is in the range of 1:3 to 9:1.    2. an adhesive composition of claim 1 characterized wherein said hard segments of said block copolymer are polyester condensates of an aliphatic or alicyclic diol having from 2 to 10 carbon atoms and an alicyclic or aromatic dicarboxylic acid having from 8 to 20 carbon atoms, or polyamide condensates of an aliphatic or alicyclic diamine having from 2 to 12 carbon atoms and an aliphatic or alicyclic dicarboxylic acid having from 2 to 12 carbon atoms, or polyamide condensates of an w -aminocarboxylic acid having from 2 to 12 carbon atoms;  and wherein said soft segments of said block copolymer are polyester condensates of an aliphatic or alicyclic diol having from 4 to 10 carbon atoms or a polylactone diol of molecular weight in the range of 350 to 6000 and an aliphatic, alicyclic or aromatic dicarboxylic acid having from 4 to 54 carbon atoms, or poly(ether-ester) condensates of a poly(alkylene ether) glycol of molecular weight in the range of 350 to 6000 in which the alkylene groups have from 2 to 10 carbon atoms and an aliphatic, alicyclic or aromatic dicarboxylic acid having from 4 to 54 carbon atoms, orpolyamide condensates of an aliphatic or alicyclic diamine having from 2to 12carbon atoms   andamixture    of an aliphatic or alicyclic dicarboxylic acid having from 4 to 54 carbon atoms  containing at least 40 weight percent of an aliphatic dicarboxylic acid having from 18 to 54 carbon atoms.    3. an adhesive composition of claim 1 characterized wherein said block copolymer is a copolyester wherein the hard segments are condensed from an aliphatic or alicyclic diol having from 2 to 10 carbon atoms and an alicyclic or aromatic dicarboxylic acid having from 8 to 20 carbon atoms and said soft segments are condensed from an aliphatic or alicyclic diol having from 4 to 10 carbon atoms or a polylactone diol of molecular weight in the range of 350 to 6000 or a poly (alkylene ether) glycol of molecular weight in the range of 350 to 6000 in which the alkylene groups have from 2 to 10 carbon atoms and an aliphatic, alicyclic or aromatic dicarboxylic acid having from 6 to 54 carbon atoms.    4. an adhesive composition of claim 1 characterized wherein said block copolymer is a copolyamide wherein the hard segments are condensed from an aliphatic or alicyclic diamine having from 2 to 12 carbon atoms and an aliphatic or alicyclic dicarboxylic acid having from 2 to 12 carbon atoms or from an   (p'-aminocarboxylic    acid having from 2 to 12 carbon atoms and said soft segments being condensed from an aliphatic or alicyclic diamine having from 2 to 12 carbon atoms and a mixture of aliphatic and alicyclic dicarboxylic acids having from 4 to 54 carbon atoms containing at least 40 weight percent of an aliphatic dicarboxylic acid having from 18 to 54 carbon atoms.    5. an adhesive composition of claim 1 characterized wherein said block copolymer is a   copoly(ester-amidewwherein    the hard segments are condensed from an aliphatic or alicyclic diol having from 2 to 10 carbon atoms and an alicyclic or aromatic dicarboxylic acid having from 8 to 20 carbon atoms and said soft segments being condensed from an aliphatic or alicyclic diamine having from 2 to 12 carbon atoms and a mixture of aliphatic and alicyclic dicarboxylic acids having from 4 to 54 carbon atoms containing at least 40 weight percent of an aliphatic dicarboxylic acid having from 18 to 54 carbon atoms.      6. an adhesive composition of claim 1 characterized wherein said block copolymer is a copoly(ester-amide) wherein said hard segments are condensed from an aliphatic or alicyclic diamine having from 2 to 12 carbon atoms and an aliphatic or alicyclic dicarboxylic acid having from 2 to 12 carbon atoms or from an   w' -aminocarboxylic    acid having from 2 to 12 carbon atoms and said soft segments being condensed from an aliphatic or alicyclic diol having from 4 to 10 carbon atoms or a poly(alkylene ether) glycol of molecular weight in the range of 350 to 6000 in which the alkylene groups have from 2 to 10 carbon atoms and an aliphatic, alicyclic or aromatic dicarboxylic acid having from 6 to 54 carbon atoms.    7. an adhesive composition of claim 5 characterized wherein said polyester is poly(ethylene terephthalate), poly (tetramethylene terephthalate),   co-poly(butyleneterephthalate)-    (ethylene terephthalate), co-poly(ethylene-terephthalate) (ethylene isophthalate) or copoly(ethylene terephthalate) (propylene terephthalate) and said polyamide segments are condensed from a   c36dimer    acid and hexamethylene diamine.    8. an adhesive composition of claim 1 characterized in that said melt viscosity at 2500c. is less than 300,000    -l centipoise at a shear rate of 4 sec.       9. an adhesive composition of claim 1, 5 or 6 characterized wherein said hard segment prior to incorporation in the block copolymer has a weight average molecular weight in the range of 400 to 16,000 and a melting point in the range of 1800 to   270 c.       10. an adhesive composition of claim 9 characterized wherein said block copolymer has a weight average molecular weight in the range of 5500 to 30,000 and a glass transition temperature in the range of about -30 to 400c.      11. the adhesive composition of claim 10 characterized wherein said particulate mineral reinforcing agent has an average particle size in the range of about 0.2 to about 150 microns and said glass fiber is milled glass fiber of average length at least about   0,8    mm.    12. a method of filling a cavity in a substrate which comprises applying excess adhesive composition as a hot melt into the cavity, spreading said adhesive composition to fill the cavity, cooling said adhesive composition below its crystallization temperature and sanding said adhesive composition to provide a surface even with the surrounding substrate, characterized wherein said adhesive composition comprises a block copolymer, a particulate mineral reinforcing agent and glass fiber, said block copolymer is copolyester, copolyamide, copoly(esteramide) or copoly(ether-ester) melting at a temperature of above 1500c., having from about 30 to about 70 weight percent of hard segments and from about 70 to about 30 weight percent of soft segments, said weight ratio of block copolymer to particulate mineral reinforcing agent and glass fiber is in the range of 3:7 to 3:  :2, said weight ratio of block copolymer to glass fiber is at least 3:4 and said weight ratio of particulate mineral reinforcing agent to glass fiber is in the range of about 1:3 to 9:1.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
