<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0012023
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800611
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
F16H-3/08 F16H-3/097 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
change speed gear.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
tailby raymond agb<sep>windsor smith claude pgb<sep>tailby, raymond alfred<sep>windsor-smith, claude peter<sep>tailby, raymond alfred 40 moat roadloughborough leicestershire le11 3pngb <sep>windsor-smith, claude peter 11 the drive woodhouse eavesloughborough leicestershire le12 8regb<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
windsor-smith claude peter<sep>windsor-smith, claude peter<sep>tailby, raymond alfred40 moat roadloughborough leicestershire le11 3pngb<sep>windsor-smith, claude peter11 the drive woodhouse eavesloughborough leicestershire le12 8regb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
change speed gear more especially for vehicle use is  provided in which ratios of the gear in one direction are  transmitted by gear members (11, 12) on respective layshafts  (1, 2, 3, 4) from input to output shafts (5,6), a gear member (12)  of each layshaft (1, 2, 3, 4) being arranged to be selectively  fully clutched by a respective clutch (10, 20, 30, 40) thereto for  transmitting a drive at the corresponding ratio.  the arrangement  is such that when such a gear member (12) is fully  clutched to its layshaft (3 or 4) for transmitting a high ratio  drive (e. g.  for 3rd or 4th gear) at least one other such low ratio  gear member (12) (e. g.  for 1st or 2nd gear) is arranged to be  partially clutched as and when required to its layshaft (1 or 2)  in order to obtain retardation of the high ratio drive transmission.   preferably both gear members (12) (e. g.  for 1st and 2nd  gears) are simultaneously partially clutched to their layshafts  (1 and 2) in order that the retardation is more fully and  smoothly effected through the gear system on the drive  transmitted.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
d e s c r i p t i o n change speed gear is invention relates to change speed gear primarily for ote vehicle transmission and more particularly of the i in which layshaft gearing in constant mesh with input 1 output shaft gearing includes layshaft gears arranged 4 b be selectively clutched to respective layshafts in effecting a required drive transmission ratio. the object of this invention is to provide an improved arrangement of change speed gear whereby a retarding action can be obtained, e.g. to brake, or assist the braking of, a vehicle provided with the change speed gear. this and other practical advantages will be apparent from the following disclosure. according to this invention change speed gear is provided wherein ratios of the gear in one direction are transmitted by gear members on respective layshafts from input to output shafts of the change speed gear, a gear member of each layshaft being arranged to be selectively fully clutched by respective cluttthereto for transmitting a drive at the corresponding ratio and is characterised by the arrangement whereby when such a gear member is fully clutched to its layshaft for transmitting a high ratio drive at least one other such: low ratio gear member (e.g. for 1st or 2nd gear) is arranged to be partially clutched as and when required to its layshaft in order to obtain retardation of the high ratio drive transmission. in the practical application of the invention to a vehicle transmission gearbox, the construction and arrangement is as follows, reference being had to the accompanying diagrammatic drawings in which : figure 1 is a generally axial plane section of the gearbox figure 2 is an end view in the direction of the arrow ii of flgur 1, 3 to 6 are gear train diegraes of each forward speed ratio, and figures 7 to 9 are diagrassatio vievs of retardation control means. like parts are referred to by the same or similar reference designation throughout the dravings. referring to figures 1 and 2 a straight through gearbox providing four forward speed ratios is shown in which each such ratio is effected through lay gearing on a correspond- ing layshaft so that there i8 a layshaft 1, 2, 3 and 4 for each ratio. in b the ase of the first gear layshaft 1 shown in the upper part of figure 1, and in figure 3, a lay gear 11 fast therewith constantly meshes with a corresponding gear 50 on the input shaft 5 whilst a further lay gear 12 on the lay shaft i is arrantd to be clutched to the latter by means of clutch 10 at one end of the layshaft 1, which clutch 10 is shown of the multi-disc type arranged for fluid pressure ; ; raulic or pneumatic) operation. on the gear 12 teing clutched to the layshaft 1 a first or low gear ratio is transmitted to a corresponding gear 60 of a cluster 600 of such gears on the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims      change    speed gear wherein ratios of the gear in one  direction are transmitted by gear members (11, 12) on  respective layshafts (1, 2, 3, 4) from input to  output shafts   (5,    6) of the change speed gear, a gear  member (12) of each layshaft (1, 2, 3, 4) being arranged  to be selectively fully clutched by respective clutch  (10, 20, 30 or 40) thereto for transmitting a drive  at the corresponding ratio and characterised by the  arrangement whereby when such a gear member (12) is fully  clutched to its layshaft (3 or 4) for transmitting a  high ratio drive (e.g. for 3rd or 4th gear) at least one  other such low ratio gear member (12) (e.g. for 1st or  2nd gear) is arranged to be partially clutched as and  when required to its layshaft (1 or 2) in order to  obtain retardation of the high ratio drive transmission.   2. change speed gear according to claim l-wherein two such  low ratio gear members (12) (e.g. for 1st and 2nd gears)  are arranged to be simultaneously partially clutched  as and when required to their layshafts (1 and 2) in  order to obtain retardation of the high ratio drive  transmission.        3.    change speed gear according to claim 1 or 2 wherein  the clutches (10, 20, 30, 40) are each selectively  actuated by corresponding fluid pressure operated  piston means (15) and wherein the clutches (10 and/or  20) to the low ratio gear members (12) (e.g. for   18     and/or 2nd gears) are arranged to be actuated for  partial clutching of their associated gear member or  members (12) by low   ar    reduced pressure operation of  the corresponding piston means (15).   4. change speed gear according to any of the preceding  claims wherein control means (151) for effecting partial  clutching   of a    said gear member or gear members (12) is  arranged to be automatically operated with operation (160)  of separate brake mechanism, e.g. of a motor driven  vehicle in which the change speed gear is incorporated  - in the vehicle drive transmission.   5. change speed gear according to claim 4 wherein the  control means (151) is operated on initial brake  application operation (160) of the separate brake  mechanism.     6. change speed gear according to claim 4 or 5 wherein  the control means such as a valve (151) controlling  fluid pressure operation of the partial clutching  of a said gear member or gear members (12) is operated  from a separate brake operating member such as a  foot pedal (160) e.g. on initial brake application  movement of the latter.   7. change speed gear according to any of the preceding  claims wherein control means (152) for effecting partial  clutching of a said gear member or gear members (12) is  arranged to be automatically operated on release operation  of accelerator (170) or similar speed control of an  engine or motor driving the gear.    8. change speed gear according to claim 7 wherein the  control means (152) is operated on final release operation  of the accelerator (170) or similar speed control.   9. change speed gear according to claim 7   or 8    wherein  the control means such as a valve (152) controlling fluid  pressure operation of the partial clutching of a said  gear member or gear members (12) is operated from an  accelerator or similar speed control member such as an  accelerator pedal (170), e.g. on final release operation  of the latter.     10. change speed gear according to any of the preceding  claims wherein control means (153) for effecting partial  clutching of a said gear member or gear members (12)  is arranged for operation at will such as by hand  control (180).  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
