<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0012579
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800625
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B41M-5/00 B41M-5/165 <main>B41M-5/16</main> 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
pressure-sensitive mark-recording systems and solutions for use in such systems.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
monsanto europe sabe <sep>monsanto europe s.a. <sep>monsanto europe s.a. avenue de tervuren 270-272 letter box 1b-1150 brusselsbe<sep>monsanto europe s.a.<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
allart pierre jean<sep>guillaume claude andre<sep>allart, pierre jean<sep>guillaume, claude andre<sep>allart, pierre jeanavenue de broqueville 194b-1200 brusselsbe<sep>guillaume, claude andre13 piroy streetb-5900 jodoignebe<sep>allart, pierre jean  <sep>guillaume, claude andre <sep>allart, pierre jeanavenue de broqueville 194b-1200 brusselsbe<sep>guillaume, claude andre13 piroy streetb-5900 jodoignebe<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
the initial intensity and durability of marks produced in  pressure-sensitive mark-recording systems employing a  chromogen, an aromatic hydrocarbon solvent for the chro足 mogen and a chromogen-sensitizing agent, are improved by  effecting contact between the chromogen and the sensitizing  agent in the presence of a promoter which is a compound  that is an alkylated, aralkylated or cycloalkylated phenol or  which contains an alkylated, aralkylated or cycloalkylated hy足 droxyphenol radical in its molecule, the structure of the phe足 nol or radical being such that at least one of the positions or足 tho to the hydroxyl group is occupied by an alkyl group of at  least four carbon atoms or by an aralkyl or cycloalkyl group.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
pressure-sensitive arrk-recording systems and solutions for use in such systems this invention relates to solutions which are useful in the production of pressure-sensitive markrecording systems and to systems thus produced the most familiar form of presstlre-sensitive markrecording system is the so-called carboiiles copying paper which comprises a two-sheet system in which the under surface of the top sheet has a coating of micro- capsules of a solution of a colourless chromogen, while the upper surface of the lower (receiver) sheet has an absorbent coating including a sensitizing agent for the chromogen. when a marking instrument is applied to the top sheet the microcapsules are locally ruptured, thereby releasing the chromogen solution from the affected microcapsules to react with the underlying sensitizing agent and form coloured marks on the receiver sheet corresponding to the marks applied to the top sheet a successful carbonless copying paper system needs to meet a number of criteria for example, the marks on the receiver sheet should develop rapidly to a legible intensity of colour and a legible mark should persist or as long as the sheet is required to be kept. ether the various criteria are met depends on a number of factors including the nature of the solvent, the sensitizing agent and the chromogen, and many different materials of each category have been proposed. we have now found that improvements are achieved in respect of the initial intensity of colour of the mark and its durability by including in the system certain phenolic compounds. a solution of the invention comprises a liquid solvent comprising an aromatic hydrocarbon in which at least half the carbon atoms are benzenoid carbon atoms, and, dissolved in the solvent, a chromogen and a compound (hereinafter referred to as a promoter) which is an alkylated, aralkylated or cycloalkylated phenol or which contains an alkylated, aralkylated or cycloalkylated hydroxyphenyl radical in its molecule, the structure of the phenol or radical being such that at least one of the positions ortho to the hydroxyl group is occupied by an alkyl group of at least four carbon atoms or by an aralkyl or cycloalkyl group, and the solvent having a low volatility consistent with its use as a chromogen solvent in a system of the invention. a pressure-sensitive mark-recording system of the invention comprises (a) sheet material, (b) promoted markforming components supported by the sheet material and arranged in juxtaposition but in unreactive condition, the said components comprising (i) a chromogen (ii) a sensitizing agent for the chromogen which produces a colour from the chromogen when brought into contact with the chromogen in the presence of a solvent and (iii) a promoter as defined above, and (c) the said solvent, which is a liquid comprising an aromatic hydrocarbon in which at least half the carbon atoms are benzenoid carbon atoms, and in which solvent both the chromogen and the promoter are soluble, supported by the sheet material but separated from the sensitizing agent by a physical barrier which is rupturable on the application
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims   1. a solution for use in a pressure sensitive mark-recording system, the said solution comprising a chromogen dissolved in a liquid solvent comprising an aromatic hydrocarbon in which at least half the carbon atoms are benzenoid carbon atoms, characterised in that there is also dissolved in the solvent a promoter which is a compound that is an alkylated, aralkylated or cycloalkylated phenol or which contains an alkylated, aralkylated or cycloalkylated hydroxyphenol radical in its molecule, the structure of the phenol or radical being such that at least one of the positions ortho to the hydroxyl group is occupied by an alkyl group of at least four carbon atoms or by an aralkyl or cycloalkyl group.   2. a solution according to claim 1 in which the promoter is a mononuclear phenol; a compound containing two hydroxyphenyl radicals linked at the 2- or 4-position through a sulphur atom or through an alkylene or alkylidene group; or a compound having the general formula  [a-(ch2)pcoo]mr where a represents a hydroxyphenyl radical linked at the 2or 4-position to the   (ch2)pradical,    p is an integer of from 1 to 4, m is an integer of from 1 to 4 and r represents a radical derived by the loss of m hydrogen atoms from an alkane of the formula cnh2n + 2 where n is an integer of from 1 to 24.   3. a solution accordingto either of claims 1 and 2 in which the structure of   the    phenol or radical is such that at least one of the positions ortho to the hydroxyl group is occupied by an alkyl group of from 4 to 12 carbon atoms, an alphaalkyl benzyl group or an alpha-alkyl cyclohexyl group.   4. a solution according to claim 3, in which the promoter is alpha-methylbenzylated phenol containing a mixture of ortho(alpha-methylbenzyl)phenol and 2,4-di (alpha-methylbenzyl) phenol and/or 2,6-di (alpha-methylbenzyl)phenol.     5. a solution according to claim 3 in which the promoter is 4,6-dinonyl-2-methyl phenol.   6. a solution according to claim 3 wherein the phenol or radical contains two or three alkyl, aralkyl or cycloalkyl substituent groups and thestructure of the phenol or radical is such that at least one of the positions ortho to the hydroxyl group is occupied by a tertiary alkyl group of from 4 to 12 carbon atoms or by an alpha-methylcyclohexyl group and at least one other position in the nucleus of the phenol or radical is occupied by an alkyl group of from one to three carbon atoms.      7.    a solution according to claim 6 wherein the promoter is   2, 6-di-t-butyl-4-methylphenol,      2, 4-dimethyl-6 (alpha-    methylcyclohexyl)phenol,   2, 6-di (alpha-methylcyclohexyl) -4-    methylphenol, 4,4'-thiobis (2-t-butyl-5-methylphenol), 4,4'    butylidene-bis (2-t-butyl-5-methylphenol), 2,2 '-methylenebis    (4-methyl-6-t-butylphenol),   2,2'-methylenebis(4-ethyl-6-t-    butylphenol), or bis [2-hydroxy-3 (alpha-methylcyclohexyl)-5-   methylphenyg    methane.   8. a solution according to claim 3 wherein the promoter is a compound having the general formula    l (ch2)pcoojmr    where a represents a hydroxyphenyl radical linked at the 4-position to the (ch2) p radical and having a tertiary alkyl group of from 4 to 12 carbon atoms in at least one of the 3- and 5-positions, and r represents a radical derived by the loss of m hydrogen atoms from an alkane of the formula cnh2n + 2 where n is an integer of from m to 24.   9. a solution according to claim 8 wherein the promoter is octadecyl   3- (3, 5-di-t-butyl-4-hydroxyphenyl)propionate    or tetrakis   d- (3, 5-di-t-butyl-4-hydroxyphenyl)propionyloxy-      methyf] methane.      10. a solution according to any of claims 1 to 9, in which the amount of the promoter is from 0.1 to 3% by weight of the solvent.     11. a solution according to any of claims 1 to 10, in which the chromogen is crystal violet lactone (cvl), and the solution also contains   benzoyl    leuco methylene blue (blb) as an auxiliary colouring agent, the proportions of cvl and   blmb    being from 40:60 to 75:25 by weight 12. a pressure-sensitive mark-recording system comprising (a) sheet material, (b) mark-forming components supported by the sheet material and arranged in juxtaposition but in unreactive condition, the said components comprising (i) a chromogen, (ii) a sensitizing agent for the chromogen which produces a colour from the chromogen when brought into contact with the chromogen in the presence of a solvent, and   (c)    the said solvent, being a solvent comprising an aromatic hydrocarbon in which at least half the carbon atoms are benzenoid carbon atoms, supported by the sheet material but separated from the sensitizing agent by a physical barrier which is rupturable on the application of a marking instrument to the sheet material, characterised in that the sheet material also supports a promoter which is an alkylated,   aralkylated or cycloalkylated phenol or   a    compound which contains an alkylated, aralkylated or cycloalkylated hydroxyphenyl radical in its molecule, the structure of the phenol or radical being such that at least one of the positions ortho to the hydroxyl group is occupied by an alkyl group of at least four carbon atoms or by an aralkyl or cycloalkyl group, the promoter being soluble in the solvent, and the location of the promoter in the system being such that it is present when the chromogen is brought into contact with the sensitizing agent.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
