<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0015886
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800917
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
G10K-11/00 H04R-17/00 G10K-11/02 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
an improved electro-acoustic transducer element.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
toray industriesjp<sep>toray industries, inc.<sep>toray industries, inc.2, nihonbashi-muromachi 2-chome chuo-kutokyo 103jp<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
nakanishi toshiharujp <sep>ohigashi hirojijp  <sep>suzuki miyojp<sep>nakanishi, toshiharu<sep>ohigashi, hiroji<sep>suzuki, miyo<sep>nakanishi, toshiharu660-1, tebirokanakura-shi kanagawa-kenjp<sep>ohigashi, hiroji1469-6, hisagi 7zushi-shi kanagawa-kenjp<sep>suzuki, miyo6-20, kugenuma-fujigadani 4-chomefujisawa-shi kanagawa-kenjp<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
an electro-acoustic transducer element includes a  polymer, preferably polyvinylidene fluoride, piezoelectric  film of an acoustic impedance z₀ and at least one, prefer­ ably polymeric, additional layer of like acoustic impedance  z coupled to one side surface of the film, either directly  or indirectly.  adequate adjustment in thickness of the  additional layer enables free change in frequency charac­ teristics of its acoustic effect without any change in di­ mensions of the polymer piezoelectric film.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
an improved electro-acoustic transducer element background of the invention the present invention relates to an improved electro acoustic transducer element, and more particularly relates to improvement in construction of an electro-acoustic element incorporating a polymer piezoelectric film, which is used fer transmission and or conversion of ultrasonie as a substitute for the conventional inorganic piezos@ectric material, polymer piezoelectric material is @@ventameously used for ultrasonic vibrators in the fi.led of diagnosties and detection of internal defects in various articles for its easy production of large sized films, eaeiness in treatment and fine fit to curved surfaces. the aco@stic impendance of the polymer piezolectric material is by far lower than that of the inorganic , piezoelectric material and very close to those of water, organism and general organie materials. thus, the polymer piezoelectric material functions as an excellent transmitter and receiver for ultrasonic waves which travel through these objects. in connection math this, however, use of the polymer piezoelectric film in the construction of an ultrasonic transducer is in practice aqccompanied viith various problems. in the case of ultrasonic devices used for diagnostics and/or detection of internal defects, ultrasonic waves are mostly used with frequencies in the range from 1 to 10 khz. it is well knovrn that, in order to obtain high transmission efficiency, the resonant frequency of the vibrator has to match the frequency of the ultrasonic wave to be used for the process. in other words, the thickness of the piezoelectric film has to be chosen in accordance with the frequency of the ultrasonic wave to be used for the aimed process. in the case of polyvinylidene fluoride which is a typical polymer piezoelectric material, its frequency constant foto is equal to 115 l'izcin, fo being the resonant frequency of a free thickness vibrator and to. being the thickness of the film. in order to obtain high efficiency in transmission of the ultrasonic wave of 2.5 mhz frequency which is commonly used for diagnostic purposes, it is required for the film to have a thickness of 460ism m for a half wave drive, and 230 m for a quarter wave drive. -a potential of about 106 v/cm is needed for polarization of polymer for provision of piezoelectricity. polarization of a polymer film of a large thickness is often accompanied with troubles suc as aerial discharge, thereby disabling easy preparation of a thick polymer piezoelectric film. the available thickness under the present condition is 100s m or smaller. this is the first disadvantage of the conventional art. in production of a polymeric piezoelectric film, it is very difficult to optimumly control the process in order to provide the resultant film with a thickness well suited for transmission of the ultrasonic wave of an aimed frequency. such a polymer piezoelectric film is in nost cases obtained by polarization of a material film after drawing. depending on the process conditions in drawing and heat treatment, thickness of the resultant film varies greatly. quite unlike the inorganic piezoelictric material, it is extremely troublesome
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims   1. an improved electro-acoustic transducer element comprising    2    polymer piezoelectric film having an   acoustic    impedance zo, and  at least one additional layer coupled to at least one side surface of said polymer piezoelectric film end having an acoustic   impendance    z which is   equal    or very close to said first-named acoustic impedance   zo.      2. an improved electro-acoustic transducer element as claimed in claim 1 in which  said acoustic impedances are related to each other as follows;    0.2 < z/zo < 2     3. an improved electro-acoustic transducer element as claimed in claim 2 in   which     said second-named acoustic impedance z is related to the acoustic impedance zf of water as follows;  0.5   g    z/zf 4. an improved electro-acoustic transducer element as claimed in claim 1 in   t.'lich     said additional layer is made of a polymer.   5. an improved electro-acoustic transducer element as claimed in claim 4 in   which     said additional layer is made of a polymer same as that used for said polymer piezoelectric film.        6,    an improved electro-acoustic   transducer    element as claimed in claim 4 in   which     said   polymer    is chosen from a group consisting of polythylene telephthalate, polycarbonate, pmma, polystylene,   ffi    polyethylene, vinyl chloride,   polyannde,    aromatic polyamide and polyvinylidene fluoride.   7. an improved   electro-acotistic    transducer element as claimed in claim 6 in   which     said polymer includes inorganic compound.   8. an improved electro-acoustic transducer element as claimed in claim 6 in which  said polymer includes carbon fibers.   9. an   improved    electro-acoustic transducer element as   claimed    in claim 6 in which    said polymer includes metallic fibers.   10. an improved electro-acoustic transducer as claimed in claim 1 in which  said additional layer is coupled to the front side surface of said polymer piezoelectric film.   11. an improved electro-acoustic transducer element as claimed in claim 10 in which  said additional layer is coupled to the front side surface of said polymer piezoelectric film via a front side electrode, and  said polymer piezoelectric film is backed   vzith    a rear side electrode.   12. an improved electro-acoustic transducer element as claimed in claim 10 in   which       said additional layer is fixed to the front side surface of said polymer piezoelectric film,   and     both, as an integral body, are   sandwiched    by a pair of electrodes.   13. an improved electro-acoustic transducer as claimed in claim   1    in which  said additional layer is coupled to the rear side surface of said polymer piezoelectric film.   14. an improved electro-acoustic transducer element as claimed in claim 13  said additional layer is coupled to the rear side surface of said polymer piezoelectric film via   a    rear side electrode, and  a front side electrode is fixed to the front side  surface of said   polymer    piezoelectric film.   15. an improved electro-acoustic   transducer    element as   clainied    in claim 14 in which  said additional layer is backed   vath    an acoustic reflector plate.   16. an improved electro-acoustic transducer element as claimed in claim 13 in   which     said additional layer is fixed to the rear side surface of said polymer piezoelectric film, and  both, as an integral body, are   sandtviched    by front and rear side electrodes.   17. an improved electro-acoustic transducer element as claimed in claim 16 in which    said rear side electrode is backed with an acoustic reflector plate.   18. an improved electro-acoustic transducer   element    as claimed in claim 1 in   which     two additional   layers    are   coupled    to both side surfaces of said polymer piezoelectric film.      13.    an improved electro-acoustic transducer element as claimed in claim 18 in which  a front side additional.   layer    is coupled to the front side surface of said polymer piezoelectric film via a front side electrode.   20. an improved electro-acoustic transducer element as claimed as claim 19 in which  a rear side additional layer is coupled to the rear side  surface of said   polymer    piezoelectric film via a rear side electrode.   21. an improved electro-acoustic transducer element as claimed in claim 19 in which  a rear   side addtional    layer is fixed to the rear side surface of said polymer piezoelectric film and further backed   vzith    a rear side electrode.   22. an improved electro-acoustic transducer element as claimed in claim 18 in   which     a front side additional layer is fixed to the front side surface of said polymer piezoelectric film and forwardly covered with a front side electrode.    23. an improved electro-acoustic transducer element as claimed in claim 22 in which    a rear side additional layer is coupled to the rear side surface of said polymer piezoelectric film via a rear side electrode.   24. an improved electro-acoustic transducer element as claimed in claim 22 in which  a rear side additional layer is fixed to the rear side surface of said polymer piezoelectric film and further backed   smith    a rear side electrode.   25. an improved electro-acoustic transducer element as claimed in claim 1 in   which     said polymer piezoelectric film and said additional layer are both forwardly concave.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
