<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0016478
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19801001
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
E02D-27/01 E04B-1/02 E04B-2/56 E02D-27/00 E04B-1/04 E04B-2/00 B28B-7/22 E04C-2/38 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
pre-cast building unit, building and method utilizing same, and casting form therefor
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
oakwood investments ltdgb  <sep>oakwood investments, limited<sep>oakwood investments, limitedc/o bvi international trust company, limited columbus center p.o. box 662roadtown tortola british virgin islandsvg<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
fields earl lus<sep>fields, earl l.<sep>fields, earl l.3218 west platte avenuecolorado springs colorado 80904us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
an elongated pre-cast integral building panel comprising a planar wall-forming section, a foot section integral with said planar section and located at one end thereof, whereby said foot section has a relatively wide base and a tapered body terminating adjacent said one end of said planar section. 
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
pre-cast building unit, building and method utilizing same, and casting fori4 therefor this invention relates to construction systems and methods, and more particularly to a building construction utilizing pre-cast panels, each of which is an integral unit providing both the foundation foot portion and a complete vertical segment of the wall of the building, and to casting forms for making such panels. it is an object of the invention to provide a pre-cast building unit, a building structure and method, and a casting form, all of which make it possible to erect building walls substantially without pouring any concrete at the building site. the ultimate aim of the invention is to make it.possible to erect a building with cast concrete walls without the labor and time normally required for building concrete forms and reinforcement structures at the building site as well as reducing-the waste of time and labor involved in pouring the concrete into the forms, allowing it to cure, and removing the forms. it also is an object of the invention to eliminate the cost of transporting to the building site special equip ment such as concrete mixers and framing materials. additionally, it is intended to avoid the waste of materials which sometimes occurs when concrete forms are discarded after use at a building site. it is another object of the invention to improve the consistency of the quality of buildings built of cast materials by building the panels at a manufacturing site at which the effects of weather variations on the curing of the concrete and personnel changes can be minimized. it is yet another object to reduce costs attributable to the ordering of either excessive or insufficient quantities of concrete or other materials usually used at the building site. in accordance with the present invention, the foregoing objects are met by the provision of-a pre-cast construction unit or panel which includes both a foot portion and a wall portion. the foot portion is substantially wider than the wall portion so that the foot portion will provide a broad, stable, heavy base to support the wall section in a vertical position. the width of the foot portion changes gradually with its height, thus giing it a sloping face. this forms an extremely strong structure, able to be transported to the building site with little danger of damage, while being relatively simple and easy to manufacture. the sloping foot portion ends near the lower end of the panel (below the earth level when installed), thus minimizing the cost of materials used, and ensuring that the wall will be straight. means are provided on each panel for attaching it at the sgde to another such panel so as to form a wall preferably, the attachment means has a substantial vertical extent so that the panels can be secured together without expensive leveling procedures, despite irregularities in the elevation of the ground surface upon which the panels stand. means are provided for attaching floor and roof supports to the panels. these
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:   1. an elongated pre-cast   integralbuilding    panel comprising a plana wall-forming section, a foot section integral with said planar   section- and    located at one end thereof, charaterized in that said foot section has a relatively wide base and a tapered body terminating adjacent said one end of said planar section.   2. a building panel as in claim 1 characterized in that said foot section has a substantially triangular cross-sectional shape.   3. a building panel as in claim 1 oder claim 2 characterized by securing means integral with said panel for securing said panel to an adjacent panel.   4. a building panel as in any of claims 1 through 3 characterized by support projections   integral    with and extending outwardly from said planar section for supporting a floor and/or a roof of a building.   5. a building panel as in claim 3 characterized in that said securing means comprises a metal member at one side edge of said panel.     6. a building panel as in claim 3 characterized in that said securing means comprises a metal member integral with and extending transversely of said panel with at least one end being exposed at one side-edge of said panel.   7. a building panel as in claim 6 characterized in that said metal member is a reinforcing bar extending completely across said panel with each end exposed at one side of said panel.   8. a building panel as in any preceding claim characterized by a plurality of reinforcing ribs integral with and extending longitudinally of and outwardly from said planar section.   9. a building structure comprising integral, vertically elongated pre-cast building panels buried at one end in the earth and secured to one another in side-by-side relationship to form a wall of said building, characterized by a platform support member extending transversely of said panels and secured to each of said panels, said support member having a vertical dimension greater than the difference in elevation of the lowest and the highest ones of said panels, integral fastening means on each panel at a predetermined location, said platform support member being secured to said panels by said fastening means at varying elevations, whereby said support member defines a platform supporting surface whose level is independent of the elevations of the individual panels in said wall.   lo. a structure as in claim 9 characterized in that said tapered portion is buried in the earth  supporting said building, and said panels are fastened together at their edges.   11. a structure as in either of claims 9 and 10 characterized by a metal reinforcing   ember    integral with and extending across each panel, the   endof    each member being fastened to the end of the member in an adjacent panel so as to form a continuous reinforcing member spanning said panels 12. a structure as in any of claims 9 through 1-1 characterized by two of said platform support members, with a roof secured to one and a floor secured to the other.   13. a structure as in any of claims 9 through 12 characterized in that said foot section has a relatively wide base and a tapered body terminating adjacent said one end of said planar section.   14. a method of constructing a building, comprising the steps of designing said building, selecting a site for said building, evaluating the soil conditions at said site, determining the proper size of the walls of the building based on the design of the building and the soil conditions at said site; precasting said walls of concrete at a casting location in mold means sized in accordance with said determination, and erecting said walls to form said building, whereby no additional concrete need be poured at said site, said precast walls forming foundation, footer and walls of said building.   15. the method according to claim 14 wherein said walls each comprise a plurality of panels, said panels  being joined to one another during said erection step.   16. the method according to claim 15 wherein said panels comprise cast-in means for being joined to others of said panels.      17    a casting form'for pre-cast building panels, said form having side walls and a bottom wall, said bottom wall being characterized by a substantially horizontal section and a sloping section formed by an inclined recess at one end.   18. a form as in claim 17 characterized by movable means in said sloping section for varying the horizontal extent of said sloping section.   19. a form as in either of claims 17 and 18 characterized by a second sloping section opposite the first sloping section, and movable barrier means in said horizontal section for separating said sloping sections from one another.   20. a form as in claim 19 characterized by two of said movable barrier means in said horizontal section to enable casting two panels simultaneously in the same form.   21. a method of casting building panels having   an    elongated foot portion and a planar wall portion, characterized by using a casting form having a substantially horizontal section and a sloping section formed by an inclined recess at one end, and movable means in said sloping section for varying the horizontal extent of said sloping section, and moving said movable means to adjust the width of said foot portion  at the base to a predetermined value.    22. a method as in claim 21 characterized by using a form having, in addition, a   second s-loping    section opposite the   rst    sloping section, and   movable    barrier means in said horizontal section for separating said sloping sections from one another, and moving said barrier means to adjust the height of said   panels    and/or to cast two panels simultaneously.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
