<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0015766
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800917
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
E04B-7/00 E04B-7/20 E04B-7/02 E04D-3/24 E04D-3/30 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
roofing structures.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
oldroyd bros limitedgb<sep>oldroyd bros. limited <sep>oldroyd bros. limitedhalton station road sutton-weaver runcorncheshire, wa7 3ew gb  <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
bailey alan henrygb<sep>bailey, alan henry<sep>bailey, alan henrythe hollies high street great budworthnear northwich cheshiregb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a pyramidal roofing structure (10) has pitches compris­ ing roofing panels (14) prefabricated from spigot-and-­ socket intercoupling edge framing (20, 22, 24) clad with stiff  load-bearing sheeting.  the panels (14) are interconnected  edge-to-edge through base webs (30) of channels constitut­ ing upwardly convergent side edge framing members (20).  a  central aperture of the structure due to the panels (14) not  reaching the apex is shown covered by transparent or trans­ lucent sheets (16).  the entire structure (10) can be built up  anywhere and then hoisted into place, e. g.  onto landing  cleats (70) on hollow posts (50) that may house rain water  down spouts from guttering (48) on a ledge (44) of the  stepped lower panel frame member (24).  adjacent struc­ tures (10) may be bolted together via lower parts (36) of the  base webs of the lower panel frame members.  roofed struc­ tures and building methods are also disclosed, the latter  including cladding between support posts (50) after hoist­ ing the roof structure(s) into position.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
title: roofing structures description the invention relates to roof structures and has particular reference to their provision in the form of readily assembled prefabricated panels. industrial building designs, whether for agricultural use, stores or factories, are particularly vulnerable as to their success on matters of cost only. embodiments of this invention give short erection times and are low on materials costs. appearance has often tended to be a secondary consideration where capital investment by purely commercial organisations are concerned. however, and fortunately for the public at large, government agencies place planning permission restrictions. we believe that embodiments of this invention will prove to be satisfactory as to appearance as well as cost. thus, the provision as proposed herein of a roof structure made up of prefabricated panels each comprising one pitch of a four-pitch pyramidal assembly on edge-to-edge interconnection, greatly reduces on-site work, especially where, as preferred, such a pyramidal assembly is made up at ground level with an independent structural integrity allowing it to be hoisted complete into position. one particular aspect of this invention thus resides in a preferred panel formation having convergent sides readily interconnected to corresponding sides of other panels, preferably as channel members in base-web abutment thus securable by bolting. advantageously such channel members comprise parts of a panel edging frame having at least a lower frame member between distal ends of the side members, conveniently also of channel section to permit mounting either by its bottom web or by a lower side web or flange to support posts, pillars or walls. upper side webs or flanges of such lower frame members preferably make oblique angles with their bottom webs so that roof panel cladding affixed thereto will have a desired pitch angle with those bottom webs vertical. also, to match with desired pitch angles and the right angle relationship of panels in a four pitch pyramidal roof structure, the upper side flanges of the aforesaid side channel members will conveniently have an acute inclination to their base webs. we particularly prefer that the side channel members of at least one, usually all, of our panel frames are interconnected by a further upper framing member, conveniently of hollow rectangular section. interconnection of such panel frames, side member-to-side member, will then produce a truncated pyramid with a central aperture that may be capped by transparent or translucent material to give natural lighting within a building roofed by one or more such pyramid assemblies. spigot-and-socket typ interconnection of the edging members of each panel frame is preferred for ease of assembly, and is particularly conveniently ashieved by means of plates affixed at ends of the or each frame member extending or to extend between side frame members, each such plate carrying an appropriately angled extension to enter those side frame members, usually with a geometrically similar section sized to give a fairly close sliding fit that enhances overall rigidity and strength edge-framed panels hereof offer the further advantage that their cladding, usually on upper surfaces of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
title: roofing structures    claims   a a roofing panel comprising an edge framing to    support cladding secured thereto, which framing has a lower framing member and upwardly extending and converging side members all of channel section with their base webs facing outwardly of the panel.   2. a roofing panel as claimed in claim 1, further comprising an upper edge frame member interconnecting upper ends of the side members.   3. a roofing panel as claimed in claim 1, wherein the upper frame member is of substantially rectangular hollow section.   4. a roofing panel as claimed in claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein said framing members are interconnected spigotand-socket fashion.   5. a roofing panel as claimed in claim 4, wherein said lower or/and upper framing members carry plates secured in their sections at or near ends thereof with extensions appropriately angled to enter the side frame member sections.   6. a roofing panel as claimed in claim 5, wherein the extensions are also of a channel section that is geometrically similar to said side members and a substantially sliding fit therewith.     7. a roofing panel as claimed in any one of claims   i    to 6, wherein the side framing members have upper flanges that make an acute angle with their base webs.   8. a roofing panel as claimed in any one of claims   1    to 7, wherein the lower framing member has an upper flange that makes an obtuse angle with its base web to match intended roof pitch angles.   9. a roofing panel as claimed in any one of claims   1    to 8, wherein the lower framing member has its base web stepped to inset upper parts thereof relative to lower parts thereof by an amount greater than any overlap of cladding.   10. a roofing panel as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 9,wherein free edges of each of said channel sections are turned towards each other.   11. a roofing panel as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 10,   wherein-said    edge framing is clad with load bearing sheet.   12. a roofing structure comprising a pyramidal assembly or roofing panels as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 11 connected together edge-to-edge to make up an independently handled structure and each affording one pitch of said assembly or structure.   13. a roofing structure as claimed in claim 12 wherein a or each pitch comprises a panel truncated short of an apex of the assembly or structure, that or each pitch being finished to said apex by transparent or translucent material.      14. a roofing structure as claimed in any one of claims 13 to 16, wherein said edge-to-edge interconnection of the roofing panels is by way of securement through side members of channel section in base web abutment.   15. a roofing structure as claimed in claim 12, 13 or 14 with claim 9, further comprising guttering channels located on ledges between said upper and lower parts.   16. a roofing assembly comprising a plurality of structures according to any one of claims 12 to 15 with claim 5, wherein adjacent ones of the structures are secured together via abutting said lower parts.   17. a method of roofing wherein at least one structure as claimed in any one of claims 12 to 15 or a roofing assembly according to claim 16, is first made up and then hoisted into position on supports therefor.   18. a supported roof resulting from the method of claim 17.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
