<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0014282
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800820
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<main>H01M-10/39</main> H01M-10/39 C25B-11/00 H01M-4/02 H01M-10/36 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
annular electrode structure and method for its manufacture.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
chloride silent power ltd<sep>chloride silent power limited<sep>chloride silent power limited52 grosvenor gardenslondon, sw1w 0augb<sep>chloride silent power limited  <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
brennan michael patrick joseph<sep>brennan, michael patrick joseph, dr.<sep>brennan, michael patrick joseph, dr.30 chester roadhelsby via warrington wa6 oezgb<sep>brennan, michael patrick joseph, dr.<sep>brennan, michael patrick joseph, dr.30 chester roadhelsby via warrington wa6 oezgb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
an annular cathode electrode structure for a sodium-­ sulphur cell comprising a porous matrix material, typically of  carbon fibre material, impregnated with sulphur or sul­ phur/sodium polysulphides is formed, as shown in figure 2,  by compressing, either in a mould or by rolling, impregnated  matrix material or impregnating compressed matrix material,  at a temperature at which the impregnant is liquid, to form a  plurality of segments 20 of trapezoidal section, preferably  joined by webs 21 along the sides of the longer of the two  parallel faces, cooling the assembly to a temperature at which  the impregnant is solid so that the segments retain their  shape, and then folding the assembly to form an annulus  which is put in the cell and which, on heating in the cell to melt  the impregnant, expands to fill the cathode region.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
improvements in or relating to electrode structures this invention relates to electrode structures for electro-chemical cells of the kind having an electrochemical reactant contained in a porous electronicallyconducting matrix. such an electrode structure is used for example as a cathode electrode in cells having a molten alkali metal as the anode separated by a solid ionically-conductive membrane from the cathode. a typical example of such a cell is a sodium-sulphur cell in which the anode comprises sodium which is molten at the operating temperature of the cell and in which the cathode comprises an electronicallyconducting matrix, typically of carbon or graphite fibrous material inpregnated with sulphur/polys-ulphides, the anode and cathode being separated by a solid electrolyte permitting the passage of sodium ions, for example a betaalumina. because the sulphur/polysulphides has a poor electrical conductivity, it is necessary to provide an electronically-conductive matrix in the cathodic region, this matrix permitting the movement of the cathodic reactant, which is liquid at the operating temperature of the cell into the region adjacent the electrolyte surface where the electro-chernical reaction takes place, the conductive matrix providing an electronic path between this region and a current collector. typically the matrix is formed of carbon felt or carbon fibres or foamed carbon, in a tubular sodium-sulphur cell, in which the solid electrolyte is in the form of an open-ended tube, it is possible to locate the cathodic reactant within the tube and the sodium outside or yice-versa. in either case the matrix is held in contact with an electronicallyconducting current collector to enable an external circuit to be connected to the cell. in the former case this current collector is typically a solid cylindrical rod coaxial with the electrolyte tube. in the latter case the current collector is typically a cylindrical metal sheath forming part of the outer casing of the cell. in both cases the cathodic reactant and the porous matrix are contained within a cylindrical annulus between the electrolyte tube and the current collector. within the sodium electrode it is preferable to provide a capillary means to maintain an adequate supply of liquid sodium over the entire surface area of one side of the solid electrolyte, in order to ensure efficient operation of this capillary means it is desirable to initially fill twe cell with sodium in the liquid form. for safety reasons this operation is preferably performed before sulphur has been introduced into the cell. because the melting point of sulphur (113 c) is quite close to that of sodium (98 c), stringent temperature control would be necessary during liquid sodium filling of a cell already containing sulphur to prevent local remelting of sulphur, which could constitute a fire hazard should the cell be subjected to accidental rough-handling resulting in fracture of the ceramic, for the same reason it is also undesirable to fill with liquid sulphur a cell which has been previously filled with liquid sodium. there is a further disadvantage of filling a cell with liquid sulphur, which is that,, on
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:    1. a method of making an annular electrode structure having a porous matrix of electronicallyconductive material impregnated with an electro-chemical reactant material characterised by the steps of shaping a sheet of   the    matrix material, and impregnating it, either before or after the shaping, with the reactant material, the shaping and impregnating being effected at a temperature above the melting point of the reactant material, cooling the impregnated shape to solidify the reactant, the shaping operation compressing the matrix material over its whole area and effecting greater compression of the material in pre-selected regions so that the matrix material is formed into a planar assembly of shaped segments which are each a portion of an annulus whereby the shaped segments are formable into the required   annul    structure.    2. a method of making an annular electrode structure as   claimed    in claim 1, characterised in that the shaping operation compressing the matrix material over its whole area and effecting greater compression of the material in pre-selected regions is so arranged that the matrix material is formed into a planar assembly of shaped segments joined by thin webs, the shaped segments each being a portion of an annulus with the webs forming hinges parallel to the axis of the annulus whereby the shaped   structure    is   folds'blue    to form the required annular structure.    3. a method as claimed in either claim 1 or claim 2 characterised in that the shaping is effected by moulding in a heated mould.      4. a method as claimed in claim 3 characterised in that the matrix material is impregnated before putting it in the mould.      5.    a method as claimed in claim 3 characterised in   that the    matrix   material    is impregnated after putting it into the mould.      6.    a method as claimed in any of claims 3 to 5 characterised in that the   moulding    is effected by putting a flat sheet of   mat    material of substantially uniform thickness into a   r:###e-i    mould.    7. a method as claimed in either   claim    5 or   @@@@@@    characterised in that air is evacuated from   the      mc##j#'##    before admitting sulphur constituting said electro chemical reactant material.    8. a method as claimed in any of claims 3 to 7 characterised in that the moulding is effected by putting a flat sheet of matrix material of substantially uniform thickness into a ribbed mould.    9. a method as claimed in any of claims 3 to 7 characterised in that the moulding is effected by putting a sheet of matrix material in a mould having one major surface flat and the opposite surface with a plurality of   v-shaped    projecting ribs.      10. a method as   claimed    in claim 2 characterised in that the sheet is shaped by passing the sheet of matrix material, impregnated with the reactant at a temperature above the melting point of the reactant, through shaped rolls to   fornf    the segments joined by webs, and wherein the cooling of the shaped   mate ¯awl    is   effect##d    as it leaves   t      rolls.       11. a method as claimed in claim 10 characterised in that the rolls comprise a pair of parallel adjacent rolls between which the sheet is passed, with one roll cylindrical and the other having either circumferential or longitudinal ribs.    12. a method as claimed in either claim 10 or claim 11 and for making an electrode structure of   sulphur    impregnated carbon or graphite fibre, characterised in that the cooling of the material leaving the rolls is effected by a blast of cold air.    13. a method as   claimed in    either claim 10 or claim 11 and for making an electrode structure of sulphurimpregnated carbon or graphite fibre, characterised in that the cooling of the material leaving the rolls is effected by immersion in water.    14. a method as claimed in any of claims 10 to 13 characterised in that said sheet is a flat sheet of matrix material of substantially uniform thickness.    15. a method as claimed in any of the preceding claims characterised in that said segments are   flat-sided    segments of   trapezoidal    section.      16. a method as claimed in claim 2 and for making a cathode structure for a sodium   sulphur    cell having a sulphur-impregnated   carbon for    graphite fibre or felt matrix, characterised in that   said    segments are of trapezoidal section, having, in transverse section, two parallel sides one longer   than    the   other    ¯the webs being at the ends of the   lonyer    parallel   side     17. an annular   #l#-"trode    structure having a porous matrix of electronically-conductive   material    impregnated with an electro-chemical reactant material which is solid at room temperature and#   rising a    plurality of segments shaped as elongated members of trapezoidal form in crosssection,   characteris      i    that each of the segments is   joined    to at least one of its neighbouring segments   a##--'#g    a longer edge of the segment, which edge is an edge defined by the end of the longer parallel side   of-the    trapezoid in cross-section.    18. an annular electrode structure -as claimed in claim 17 and for the cathode of a sodium sulphur cell,   characterised    in that the matrix is a sulphur-impregnated fibrous carbon or graphite matrix.    19. an annular electrode structure as claimed in either claim 17 or claim 18 characterised in that electrically-conductive sheet material is arranged in the space between the segments to form conductive inserts in the electrode structure.        2o    an annular electrode structure as claimed in claim 19 characterised in that the segments are joined, one to another, by webs along the longitudinal edges of   segments    adjacent the outer periphery of the   structure    such what the structure is formable by   soling    the segments, using the webs as hinges.       21.    an annular electrode structure as claimed in either   claim    19 or claim 20 characterised in that the sheet material is a metal chemically resistant to the cathodic reactant in the cell operating conditions.    22. an annular electrode structure as claimed in either claim 19 or claim 20 characterised in that the sheet material is graphite foil.    23. an annular electrode structure as claimed in claim 20 characterised in that a single pre-shaped sheet extends over the inner faces of the segments and between the segments.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
