<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0013096
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800709
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
F42B-10/00 F42B-10/14 <main>F42B-13/32</main> B64C-3/00 B64C-3/56 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
deployable wing mechanism.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
commw of australiaau<sep>the commonwealth of australia care of the secretary department of defence support<sep>the commonwealth of australiac/o the secretary department of defence support, anzac park west building, constitution avenuecanberra, australian capital territory 2600au<sep>the commonwealth of australia care of the secretary department of defence support <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
thomson keith donald<sep>thomson, keith donald<sep>thomson, keith donald7 angas roadhawthorn, state of south australiaau<sep>thomson, keith donald <sep>thomson, keith donald7 angas roadhawthorn, state of south australiaau<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a deployable wing assembly using an inner wing segment  (5) and an outer wing segment (7) with the inner wing seg­ ment hinged longitudinally to the body of a missile, or the like,  and with the outer wing segment hinged by a pin (8) perpen­ dicular to the surface of the wing segment at the junction, and  including deploying means and locking means for both sec­ tions.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
this invention relates to a deployable wing mechanism. background of the invention it is already known to have on missiles, aircraft and similar mechanisms, wings which can be moved from a stowed to an active position or from a trailing to an extended position, the purpose generally being to allow the wings to be positioned according to requirements, such as in the case of navy planes where it is necessary to fold the wings or in the case of high speed aircraft where it is necessary to use swing wings. it is thus known to so mount the wings on the fuselage or body of a missile that they can be variously positioned according to requirements. typical examples of movable wings are shown in the following united states patents: no. 2,572,421 abel, which shows an aircraft with a fixed stub wing supporting a main wing section through pivoting means which allow the wing to be rotated through 900 and then swing back to lie parallel to the fuselage. this folding is not possible in flight. no. 4,022,403 chiquet, which uses a wing hinged directly to the fuselage about a vertical pivot and provided with hydraulic means to allow the wing to be extended or folded back along the fuselage, the purpose however being to reduce overall width when the aircraft moves along a narrow path when not airborne. it is also known in modern high speed aircraft to use such an arrangement to allow the wings to be swept back in flight for greater aerodynamic efficiency at high speeds yet, when extended, to allow reasonably low landing speeds. no. 1,485,163 braun, which is a relatively early patent, dated 1924, and has a stub wing mounted on the fuselage by means of a hinge arranged longitudinally on the fuselage, and has an outer wing section joined to it by a vertical pivot pin, the object being stated to be to provide wings which can be folded similarly to the wings of birds. the earlier specification includes bracing means to cause both wings to be positioned similarly. reference is also made to the folding facility being useful in transporting of flying machines and to give improving storage. the specification also refers to increasing possible wing spread. the hinging both of the stub wing to the fuselage and the outer wing post to the stub wing is by single hinge means not suitable in modern missiles and high speed aircraft and the wings are not shaped to facilitate folding against the body nor to follow body contours, and use a special construction which simulates feathers as without these the folding would not generally be possible. objects of the invention it is an object of the present invention to provide certain improvements to deployable wing assemblies, the principal object being to allow the wings to fold in an effective manner but to allow the wings to extend when required so that for instance a missile can be ejected from a tube or barrel and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims    1. a deployable wing assembly for airborne missiles, aircraft or marine devices which comprise a body having wings thereon, characterised in that each wing comprises an inner and an outer wing segment connected together to be generally coextensive when deployed, and arranged to be stowed against the said body, first hinge means connecting an inner edge portion of the said inner wing segment to said body along a generally longitudinally disposed axis on the said body, second hinge means connecting the outer wing segment to an edge portion of the said inner segment remote from the said first hinge means, said second hinge means being disposed generally at right angles to the surface of the said  inner and outer wing segments at the said second hinge means, means to move and hold said inner wing segment angularly about the said first hinge means in relation to the said body,  and means to move and hold said outer wing segment angularly about the said second hinge means in relation to the said first wing segment, whereby both wing segments can lie adjacent the said body or can be deployed to selected positions.    2. a   deployable    wing assembly according to claim 1 wherein the said inner wing segment is shaped to fold against the said body when stowed, and the said outer wing segment is shaped to extend along the said body when both said wing segments are stowed.    3. a deployable wing assembly according to claim 1 wherein each said inner wing segment includes hinge members along one edge portion, and at least a hinge shaft supported by said body to engage said hinge members whereby to support the said wing segments to be positioned on opposite sides of the said body, and wherein the said inner wing segments are interconnected by coupling means to move similarly about the said hinge shafts.    4. a deployable wing assembly according to claim 3 wherein each said outer wing segment is hingedly supported from an associated inner wing segment and the said outer wing segments are interconnected by coupling means to move similarly about the said hinge means.      5. a   deployabe    wing assembly according to claim 3 wherein a   par    of   hinge    shafts are positioned one on each side of the said body, each connected to an associated inner wing segment.    6. a deployable wing assembly according to claim 3 wherein a single hinge shaft medial on the said body supports a pair of inner wing segments arranged to be oppositely projecting.    7. a deployable wing assembly according to claim 1 wherein at least the said inner wing segments are loaded to deploy when released from a stowed position.    8. a deployable wing assembly according to claim 7 wherein each said inner wing segment is orientatably supported on a hinge shaft attached to the said body, and said hinge shaft includes a torsion bar attached at one part to the said body and at a remote part to the said inner wing segment whereby to load the said wing toward the deployed position..    9. a deployable   wing    assembly according to claim 1 wherein the said inner wing segment includes hinge members along one edge portion, and by at least a hinge shaft supported on said body to engage at least the hinge members of one said inner wing segment, characterised in that the said hinge shaft is arranged to transmit through it motion to orientate the said outer wing segment which is associated with that inner wing segment.      10. a deployable wing assembly according to claim 9 characterised in that the said hinge shaft is hollow and arranged to have the motiontransmitting means pass through the said hollow.    11. a deployable wing assembly according to claim 1 wherein the said first hinge means comprise hinge members along one edge portion of the said inner wing segment engaging a hinge shaft for that wing segment supported on the said body, and wherein the said second hinge means comprise a pivot pin engaging both the said inner wing segment and the outer wing segment, characterised by means rotationally interconnecting said inner wing segments disposed on opposite sides of the said body to similarly orientate the said inner wing segments about the said hinge shafts, and further characterised by means rotationally interconnecting the said outer wing segments through the said inner wing segments to similarly orientate the said outer wing segments about the said pivot pins.    12. a deployable wing assembly according to claim 11 characterised in that the said interconnecting means are coupled to operating means which cause the said inner wing segments and the said outer wing segments to deploy from a stowed position.    13. a deployable wing assembly according to claim 12 characterised by means to lock the said wing segments in stowed position but releasable when the said operating means are actuated.      14. a deployable   :ving    assembly according to claim 11 characterised by cables which form the rotationally interconnecting means for the inner wing segments and which connect the inner wing segments to actuating means which deploy the said inner wing segments and by further cables which connect the outer wing segments to actuating means which deploy the said outer wing segments.     15. a deployable wing assembly according to claim 14 characterised in that the said cables which connect the outer wing segments to the actuating means pass through the said hinge shafts to actuating means disposed in the said body.    16. a deployable wing assembly according to claim 11 characterised by fluid operated drive means coupled to the said inner wing segments and to the said outer wing segments and means in the said body to actuate the said fluid operated drive means.    17. a deployable wing segment according to claim 11 characterised in that the said first hinge means have the said hinge shaft carried in pods on the said body.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
