<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0011828
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800611
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
A61K-31/519 A61P-37/00 A61P-15/00 A61K-31/55 A61P-15/04 A61P-37/08 A61P-7/00 A61P-1/00 A61P-11/08 A61K-31/505 A61P-1/04 A61K-31/485 A61P-7/02 A61P-11/00 A61K-31/445 A61K-31/535 A61K-31/52 A61K-31/415 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
pharmaceutical combinations including hydantoin derivatives, pharmaceutical formulations containing the combinations and methods of making the formulations.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
wellcome foundgb<sep>the wellcome foundation limited<sep>the wellcome foundation limitedunicorn house 160 euston road p.o. box 129london nw1 2bpgb  <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
moncada salvador enriquegb<sep>moncada, salvador enrique<sep>moncada, salvador enrique17 st. davids closewest wickham, kentgb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
combinations of an active compound selected from the  class outstanding of hydantoin and thiohydantoin derivatives  and their salts together with a phosphodiesterase inhibitor.   such combinations have pharmacological effects related to  those of the active compound alone but these effects (other  than vasodilatory effects) are potentiated by the phos­ phodiesterase inhibitor whilst the vasodilatory effect is not so  potentiated.  the combination may be used in medicine either  along or in a formulation, for example in the treatment of  thrombosis.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
pharmaceutical combinations including hydantoin derivates, phar maceutical formulations containing the combinations and methods of making the formulations the present invention relates to the use in medicine of hydantoin and thiobydantoin derivatives or their salts in conjunction wit-h a phosphodiesterase inhibitor and to a pharmaceutical formulation containing them. some compounds selected from hydantoin and thio hydantoin derivatives and their salts blaze been disclosed as having a variety of pharmacologicaj effects including a potent anti-aggregatory action on blood platelets. they are therefore oi' value as therapeutic agents in the treatment or prevention of thrombo-embolic disorders in mammals. other pharmacological effects exhibited by such hydantoin and thiohydantoin derivatives andd their salts include inhibition of pentagastrininduced gastric acid secretion; diuretic properties; effects on the uterine smooth muscle; effects on the biochemical co-operation between platelets and vascular endothelium, which contribute to the repair of damaged vascular endothelium; and antagonism of histamineinduced broncho-constriction. in addition, many such compounds also exhibit a vasodilatory action on blood vessels. hydantoin and thlohydantoin derivatives and their salts which exhibit both vasodilatory action and another pharmacological effect as described hereinbefore are referred to hereinafter as the 1active compounds'. there are often occasions when it would be desirable to be able to utilize the pharmacological effects referred to above,notably the anti-aggregatory effect, while at the same time suppressing or eliminating the vasodilatory effect of the active compounds; for example in tlie treatment or prevention of myocardial infarcts and when they are used as an addition in extra- corporeal circulation. we have now surprisingly discovered that the pharma- colugical effects, but not the vasodilatory effects of the active compounds, are potentiated by chemical compounds which are cyclic amp phosphodiesterase inhibitors. this discovery provides a means to dissociate the anta- aggregatory and other pharmacological effects from the vasodilatory effect of the active compounds. accordingly the present invention provides a combination which comprises: (a) an active compound and (b) a phosphodiesterase inllibitor; which is hereinafter referred to as 'the combination'. the combination lowers the threshold level ol tlle pharmacological effect (not including vasodilatory effects) (the minimum amount of active compound required to exhibit a certain pharmacological effect) without substantially affecting the vasodilatory threshold level. thus for example by administering an active compound (which exhibits an anti-aggregatory effect) at a concentration below its vasodilator threshold level, but above the new, lower, anti-aggregatory threshold, together with a phospho- diesterase inhibitor, anti-aggregatory effects can be produced whilst vasodilatory effects are not. active compounds which exhibit a variety of the pharmacological effects referred to above include 1,5 disubstituted hydantoin and thiohydantoin derivatives optionally further substituted in the 3- and/or the 5 position of the hydantoin ring. examples of such active compounds and their preparation may be found in the following patent specifications: belgian patent no 855 337, japanese nos 63083/79 and 95571/79, eire patent application no 2370/78, and belgian patent no 861 956 and european patent publicatiei no 3-410 (european application no 79 30008.4) active compounds which exhibit interesting vasodilatory and other pharmacological effects include those of formula (i)
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims: 1, a pharmaceutical combination   which    comprises:  (1) an active compound which is a derivative of  either hydantoin or thiohydantoin, or a salt of  either of these and  (2) a cyclic amp phosphodiesterase inhibitor 2. a combination as claimed in claim 1   wherein    the active compound is a 1,5-disubstituted hydantoin or   1,5-disuostituted      thiohydantoin    derivative   either    of which may be optionally further substituted in the 3and/or 5-position,   ol'    a salt of either of them.   3. a combination as claimed in claim 2 wherein the active compound is of the formula (i) emi32.1       wherein l is   0    or s; z and z3 are the same or different and each is hydrogen or alkyl of 1 to 6 carbon atoms; one of zú and zê is a group -ch2-x-xú-xê wherein x is phenylene,   -cc-,    cis or trans   -ch=ch-    or -ch2-ch2- in which each q may   be    the same or different and is hydrogen or alkyl or the two   q's    together form an alkylene radical of four, five or six carbon atoms; ;    x1 is a covalent bond or a straight or branched alkylene chain having 1 to 6 carbon atoms   optionally    having one of its   methylene    groups replaced by oxa (-0-) or thia (-s-) provided that at least one carbon atom separates any oxa or thia from a   -c=c-,    -ch=ch- or   co-    group;  and    x2      ;.s    5-tetrazolyl, carboxyl, carboxamide, hydroxy methylene or alkoxycarbonyl;  zú and z2 is a group -y-yú-y2-y     and the other of is a group and -y -y    wherein  y is -ch2-ch2- in   which    each r may be the same or different and is hydrogen or methyl;  yl is carbonyl, methylene, methylene substituted by hydroxyl or   methylene    substituted by hydroxyl and alkyl;  yê is a covalent bond or straight or branched alkylene having 1 to 7 carbon atoms optionally substituted in the carbon adjacent yú by one or two groups   each    of which may be alkyl or a cyclic radical; ;  y3 is hydrogen. hydroxy, alkoxy of 1 to 7, preferably 1 to 4, carbon atoms, a cyclic radical, phenyl, benzyl, phenoxy or   benzyloxy,    wherein each of phenyl, benzyl, phenoxy and benzyloxy may be substituted in the benzene ring by one or more groups selected from hydroxy, halogeno, nitro, amino, acylamino, alkenyl,   alkoxy,    phenyl and alkyl which may itself be substituted by one or more halogeno groups;  or   y2    and y3   together    form an alkyl group of 1 to 7 carbon atoms having at least one   hydrogen    replaced by fluoro;    or y is a bond,   -c1i2-    or -ch2.ch2- and y ,yê and   y3    taken together   form    a cycloalkyl or bicyclocalkyl group substituted by a hydroxyl group which preferably has three carbon atoms   separating    it from the hydantoin ring;  and their salts;  and said   term    'cyclic radical' means a monovalent radical derived by loss of a ring hydrogen atom from a monocyclic or polycyclic compound having from 3 to 12 ring atoms   selectedfrom    carbon, nitrogen, oxygen and sulphur, which compound may be saturated or unsaturated and may be further substituted by one or more alkyl groups, but excluding phenyl.      l!,    a combination as claimed in claim 3   wherein    the active compound is 5-(6-carboxyhexyl)-1-(3-hydroxy-3-cyclohexylpropyl)hydantoin or 5-(6-carboxyhex-2-enyl)-1-(3-hydroxy 3-cyclohexylpropyl) hydantein.      5.    a combination as claimed in any of the preceding claims wherein   tlle    phosphodiesterase inhibitor is a derivative of   xanthinc    or a derivative of pyrimido   (5,4-d)pyrimidinc.      6. h combination as   claimed    in claim 6 wherein the phosphodiesterase inhibitor is theophylline or dipyridamole.   7. a combination as   claimed    in any of the preceding claims which comprises 5-(6-carboxyhexyl)-1-(3-hydroxy-3-cyclo hexylpropyl) hydantoin or 5-(6-carboxyhex-2-enyl)-1 (3-hydroxy-3-cyclohexylpropyl) hydantoin together with theophylline or dipyridamole.   8. a method of preparing a combination as defined in any of the preceding   claims      which    comprises admixing the  active compound and the phosphodiesterase inhibitor.   9. a pharmaceutical formulation which comprises:  (1) an active compound which is a derivative of  either hydantoin or   thiohydantoin,    or a salt  of either of these and  (2) a cyclic amp phosphodiesterase inhibitor  together with  (3) a   pharmaceutically    acceptable carrier therefor.   10. a   formulatiols    as claimed in claim 9 wherein the carrier is a solid.   11. a formulation as claimed in claim 9 wherein the carrier is a liquid.   12. a formulation as   claimed    in any of claims 9 to 11 in a form suitable for oral,   parental,    rectal, vaginal or   intrapulmonary    administration.   13. a formulation as claimed in any of claims   9    to 12 in unit   dosage    form.   14. a formulation as claimed in claim 13 in tablet form.   15. a formulation as claimed in any of claims 9 to 14 containing from 0.05 to 25 mg of the active   compound.      16. a formulation as claimed in claim 15 containing from 100 to 400   mg    of the   phosphodiesterase    inhibitor.   17. a method for preparing a   formulation    as defined in any of claims 9 to 16 which comprises admixing the combination as   defied    in ay of claims 2 to 7 with the   pharmaceutically    acceptable carrier therefor.     18. a combination or   formulation    as claimed in any of the preceding claims for use in potentiating the inhibition of platelet aggregation.   19. a combination or formulation as claimed in claim 18 for use in the   trcatment    or prophylaxis of thromboembolic   disorders    in a mammal.   20. a   conbination    or formulation as claimed in either of claims 18 or 19 for use in the treatment or prophylaxis of thrombosis in a mammal.   21. a combination or formulation as claimed in any of claims 1 to 17 for use in the treatment or prophylaxis of a gastric lesion in a mammal.   22. a combination or   formulation    as claimed in any of claims 1 to   17    for use in the induction of bronchodilation in a mammal.    23. a combiriation or formulation as claimed in any of claims 1 to 17 for use in the treatment or prophylaxis of an allergic condition in a mammal.      24.    a   combinatioll    or formulation as claimed in any of claims 1 to 17 for use in   thc    induction of abortion of a foetus   ill    a   mammal.       25. a combination or formulation as claimed in any of claims 1 to 17 for use in the control of conception in a   mammal.      26. a   colnbination    or formulation as claimed   ii    any of claims 1 to 17 for use in any of the conditions as   defined      in any of claims 18 to 25 which ch comprises a dose of the      active compound in the range of   from    1   fg    to 20 mg/kg/day and a dose of the phosphodiesterase inhibitor in a weight ratio of 1 part of the active compound to from 1 to 200 parts of the phosphodiesterase inhibitor.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
