<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0014572
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800820
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
G03C-7/20 G03C-1/76 G03C-8/30 G03C-7/12 G03C-7/00 G03C-7/04 G03C-1/765 G03C-8/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
imaging elements containing microvessels and processes for forming images therewith.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
eastman kodak cous<sep>eastman kodak company<sep>eastman kodak company (a new jersey corporation)343 state streetrochester, new york 14650us<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
whitmore keith eldenus<sep>whitmore, keith elden<sep>whitmore, keith eldenkodak parkrochester, new yorkus<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
an imaging element (100) comprising a support and:   (1) a radiation-sensitive imaging means which undergoes a  change in mobility or optical density in forming a visible  image;   (2) a material capable of reducing the mobility of a diffusible  photographic imaging material; or   (3) at least three laterally positioned segmented filters of  different spectral absorptions;   is characterized in that the support (102) has a planar array of  microvessels (108) which individually open toward one of its  surfaces (106), next adjacent of said microvessels being  laterally spaced by less than the width of adjacent  microvessels opening toward either of the surfaces (104 or  106) of the support, and the imaging means, the mobility  reducing material and/or the filters being present at least in  part in the microvessels.  image spreading due to light scatter  during exposure and diffusion of components during  processing can be avoided.  elements suitable as lithographic  and x-ray films, additive and subtractive color materials, color  image transfer and silver salt diffusion transfer materials and  methods for their use are described.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
imagine elements containing microvessels and processes for forming images therewith this invention relates to imaging elements useful in photography and to processes for producing images employing such elements. in producing coatings suitable for forming photographic images, a typical approach is to coat onto one or both surfaces of a planar support a radiation-sensitive material alone or in combination with other image-forming materials. such coatings undergo a change in optical density as a function of exposure and if required, photographic processing. coatings prepared, exposed and processed in this way tend to have reduced image definition by reasons of lateral image spreading--that is, spreading in a direction parallel to the surfaces of the support. lateral image spreading can be the result of radiation scattering during exposure, halation, or lateral reactant migration during photographic processing. the effects of lateral image spreading can be seen as a loss in sharpness which can be mathematically analyzed in terms of modulation transfer function and as an increase in perceived graininess which can be mathematically analyzed in terms of granularity. grain mess is particularly a problem in silver halide photography since it is directly related to and limits .in many instances attainable photographic speeds. typical approaches to reducing graininess in photographic images have involved some modification of the imaging layers of photographic elements, their mode of processing or modification of the imaging layers after an image has been produced therein. an illustrative disclosure of this type is that of u.k. patent 1,318,371, which recognizes the known fact that graininess is a function of the randomness of image distribution and therefore teaches to superimpose on the imaging layer a grid which subdivides the image either before or after its formation. in every embodiment of that patent planar photographic support surfaces are coated. a non-planar support is employed in the aluphoto process in which silver halide is formed in situ in the random pores of an anodized aluminum plate. this is described by wainer in the aluphoto plate and process, 1951 photographic engineering, vol. 2, no. 3 pp. 161-169. nonplanar supports intended to level out overlapping emulsion coating patterns are disclosed by u.s. patents 2,983,606 and 3,019,124. u.s. patent 3,138,459 discloses the use of a two color screen wherein two additive primary filter dyes are coated into grooves on opposite sides of a transparent support. the grooves on one side of the support are interposed between grooves on the opposite side of the support. the grooves prevent lateral spreading of the filter dyes into overlapping relationship. however, to accomplish this the grooves on each side of the support must be laterally spaced by at least the width of the grooves on the opposite surface of the support. u.s. patent 2,599,542 discloses an electrophotographic plate comprising a conductive backing plate having randomly or regularly spaced recesses or projections having a photoconductive insulating layer coated thereon to obtain half-tone xerographic images. however, no significant halation has ever been observed during exposure of xerographic photoconductive coatings. also the optical density of photoconductive
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims    1. an imaging element comprising a support and:  (1) a radiation-sensitive imaging means which  undergoes a change in mobility or optical  density in forming a visible image;  (2) a material capable of reducing the mobility  of a diffusible photographic imaging  material; or  (3) at least three laterally positioned segments  ed filters of different spectral absorptions; characterized in that the support has an array of microvessels which individually open toward one of its surfaces, next adjacent of said microvessels being laterally spaced by less than the width of adjacent microvessels opening toward either of the surfaces of the support,   and' the    imaging means, the mobility reducing material   andaor-the    filters being present at least in part in the microvessels.    2. an element according to claim 1 in which the radiation-sensitive imaging means comprises silver halide.    3. an element according to claim 2 wherein the silver halide is located substantially wholly within the microvessels.    4. an element according to any of claims 1-3 in which the support includes microvessels with lateral walls capable of absorbing exposing radiation.    5. an element according to claim 4 in which the lateral walls are substantially opaque to exposing radiation.    6. an element according to any of claims   1-5    in which the microvessels are less than 100 microns in width.    7. an element according to claim 6 in which the microvessels are 4 to 50 microns-in width.      8. an element according to any of claims 1-7 in which the microvessels are 1 to 1000 microns in depth.    9. an element according to any of claims 1-8 in which adjacent microvessels are laterally spaced by 0.5 to 5 microns.    10. an element according to any of claims 1-9 in which the photographic element is comprised of an array of pixels each containing at least one microvessel and the microvessels account for 50 to 99 percent of the total pixel area.    11. an element according to any of claims 1-10 in which the microvessels open toward one surface of the support and the other surface of the support is lenticular.    12. an element according to any of claims 2-11 in which the radiation-sensitive imaging means is comprised of a gelatino silver halide emulsion of the developing out type.    13. an element according to any of claims 1-5 or 9-12 in which the radiation-sensitive imaging means is comprised of a silver halide emulsion and the microvessels are 7 to 20 microns in width and 5 to 20 microns in depth.      an    an element according to any of claims 1 or   14-10    in which the filters comprise:  (1) blue filter segments in a first set of  microvessels,  (2) green filter segments in a second set of  microvessels, and  (3) red filter segments in a third set of  microvessels, the first, second and third sets of microvessels forming an interlaid pattern.    15. an element according to any of claims 1 or 4-10 in which filters comprise:    (1) blue filter segments plus a yellow dye or  a yellow dye precursor in a first set of  microvessels,  (2) green filter segments plus a magenta dye or  magenta dye precursor in a second set of  microvessels, and  (3) red filter segments plus a cyan dye or  cyan dye precursor in a third set of micro  vessels, the first, second and third sets of microvessels forming an interlaid pa#ttern.    16. an element according to claim 14 or   15    wherein the microvessels contain silver halide.    17. an element according to claim 14 or 15 wherein a layer comprising silver halide is adjacent to the microvessels.      18.    an element according to any of claims 1-17 wherein   the-    support is a transparent, flexible, polymer film.    19. an element according to any of claims 1-18 wherein the microvessels are formed by embossing.    20. an element according to claim 19 wherein the support is rendered deformable by treatment with a solvent prior to embossing.    21. an element according to claim 20 wherein the solvent contains a dye for the support.    22. an element according to any of claims 1-18 wherein the microvessels are formed by etching.    23. an element according to any of claims 1-18 wherein the support is comprised of asphotoresist layer coated on a substrate and the microvessels are formed in the photoresist layer by imagewise exposure and development.    24. a process fcr   producing- a    photographic  image which comprises imagewise exposing an element according to claim 1 wherein the radiation-sensitive imaging means is adjacent to or present in the microvessels which process comprises imagewise exposing the element and processing the exposed element to form a visible image.    25. a process according to claim 24 wherein the radiation-sensitive imaging means comprises silver halide.    26. a process according to claim 25 wherein the silver halide is substantially wholly within the microvessels.    27. a process according to claim 26 wherein the imagewise exposed silver halide is processed by infectious development.    28. a process according to claim 26 wherein the imagewise silver   halide    is partially developed and a uniform dye density is generated within each microvessel, the density of the dye being directly related to the number of latent image sites formed on exposure in each microvessel.    29. a process according to claim 28 in which the partial development of the silver halide containing latent image sites is carried out with a selfinhibiting developing composition.    30. a process according to claim 28 in which the partial development of the silver halide containing latent image sites is carried out by interrupting silver halide development prior to optimum development.    31. a process according to claim 28 in which the partial development of the silver halide containing latent image sites is carried out in the presence of a development inhibitor releasing coupler.    32. a process for producing a viewable image  with an imagewise exposed element according to claim 1 wherein the radiation-sensitive imaging means is a silver halide emulsion containing image-generating means capable of converting an image component between a mobile and an immobile form in response to silver halide development which comprises:    (1)    contacting the- silver halide component of  the image-generating means with an aqueous  alkaline processing solution in the presence    of' a    silver halide developing agent,  (2) imagewise transferring the image component  in its mobile form to an image-receiving  means located in the microvessels, and  (3) retaining the image component in the    microvessels.        33.   a process    for producing a viewable silver image- with   as    imagewise exposed element according to claim 1 wherein the radiation-sensitive imaging means is a silver halide emulsion which comprises:  (i) imagewise developing the exposed silver  halide,  (2)   solubilizing-undeveloped    silver halide, and,  (3) transferring the solubilized silver halide  to- a silver reception means containing a  silver precipitating agent.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
