<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0005354
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19791114
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
A01C-5/00 B65G-43/08 A01G-23/04 A01C-5/04 A01G-9/08 A01C-11/02 A01G-23/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
seedling transplanting machine.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
williames geoffrey allan<sep>williames, geoffrey allan<sep>williames, geoffrey allan137 normanby street extensionwarragul 3820 victoriaau<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
williames geoffrey allan<sep>williames, geoffrey allan<sep>williames, geoffrey allan137 normanby street extensionwarragul 3820 victoriaau<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a seedling transplanting machine capable of automatically  selecting suitable seedlings for transplanting  from one container into a separate seedling propagating  area in which the seedlings are individually held in an  endless cell chain one to each cell, the propagating area  being either a seedling tray or larger cell chain including  sprockets for advancing the cell chain and associated  seedling to a transplanting head including a plunger (11)  and a seedling sensing device (10), the plunger (11) being  operable when a suitable transplantable seedling is  sensed, the plunger (11) being arranged to impinge on  and remove the seedling and its associated clod of soil  from the chain cell into the separate propagating area.  the  plunger head may be stationary or it may traverse a predetermined  path for transplanting seedlings in a pattern  into a standard seedling tray.  a dibbing machine is provided  to form predetermined holes in the soil of the seedling  tray and the plunger head (11) is mounted on an indexing  mechanism (12) movable to coincide with the holes  formed in the soil during the transplanting operation.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
seedling transpiating machine this invention relates to a machine for transplanting seedlings and more particularly but not exclusively for the transplanting into a seedling tray of known type of seedling individually germinated in a seed cell as disclosed in copending european patent application no. 79300223.9. presently there is no effective machine known to applicant for transplanting germinated seedlings into a seedling tray or other propagating apparatus. one well known and labour intensive method presently used as known to applicant involves the germination of a large number of seeds in a relatively small area, and the seedlings are manually individually picked out and re-planted in a standard seed box. this method whilst being effective in only having strong seedlings transplanted is very slow and expensive because of the expense of labour. the invention has particular applicability for use with the cell chain described in the above-mentioned european patent application in which is disclosed a chain of cells each holding soil for propagating a single seedling therein. the cell chain can be graded into various sizes wherein a seedling can be transplanted from a small cell into a larger cell for further propagation in a nursery prior to planting out. this is particularly applicable to propagation of trees. in the standard size seedling box of approximately 6" x 24", 105 to 110 preferably 108 seedlings are planted out. it is the object of the present invention to provide an automatic seedling transplanter which can be operated by unskilled labour but which is efficient and speedy in operation. it is a further object of the invention to provide a transplanting machine which will transplant seedlings from a cell chain as herein described into a seedling tray or into another cell chain as herein described. there is provided according to the present invention a seedling transplanting machine for transplanting a seedling and its associated clod of propagating medium e.g. soil, from a hollow cell in a chain of such cells conveying said seedling comprising advancing means 13 eeable with the cell chain for advancing said cell to a position adjacent a plunger head* said plunger head including plunger means adapted to contact said clod of propagating medium in a said cell and disengage it from said cell, container means beneath said plunger < - for receiving said disengagea seedling and associated clod of propagating medium. there is also provided a seedling transplarting machine for transplanting a seedling and its associated clod of propagating medium e.g. soil, from a hollow cell in a chain of such cells conveying said seedling comprising advancing means engageable with the cell chain for advancing said cell to a position adjacent a plunger head, said plunger head including plunger means adapted to contact said clod of propagating medium in said cell and disengage it from said cell, an indexing mechanism having said plunger head mounted thereon for selective transverse and longitudinal step by step move met within a defined area, a conveyor means for conveying a container means to a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
   claii#:      1. a machine for transplanting a seedling and its associated clod of propagating medium from a hollow cell in a chain of such cells conveying said seedling, characterised in that there are provided advancing means (13) engageable with the cell chain for advancing said cell to a position adjacent a plunger head (11), said plunger head including plunger means adapted to contact said clod of propagating medium in a said cell and disengage it from said cell.   2. a machine as claimed in claim 1 further characterised by container means beneath said plunger head for receiving said disengaged seedling and associated clod of propagating medium.   3. a machine for transplanting a seedling and its associated clod of propagating medium from a hollow cell in a chain of such cells conveying said seedling, characterised in that there are provided advancing means (13) engageable with the cell chain for advancing said cell to a position adjacent a plunger head (11), said plunger head including plunger means adapted to contact said clod of propagating medium in said cell and disengage it from said cell; an indexing mechanism (12) having said plunger head (11) mounted thereon for selective transverse and longitudinal step by step movement within a defined area; and a conveyor means for conveying a container means to a position beneath said plunger head;  the arrangement being such that the plunger means is operable to transfer a seedling and its associated clod to a position  in said container means under control of   saia      inei    mechanism (12).   4. a machine as claimed in claim 2 or 3 characterised in that said container means is a seedling tray known per se containing soil or like plant propagating medium; and there i#s provided a dibbing mechanism associated with said transplanting machine for forming plant holes in said propagating medium, the dibbing mechanism comprising a frame   ('/0),    a pressure cylinder (75) mounted on the frame for reciprocating a dibbing head, said head having a pressure plate (78) with a pattern of apertures therein and a plurality of dibbers (77) movable relative to said pressure plate to project said apertures during a dibbing operation, the arrangement being such that the pressure plate (78) applies a force on the surface of said propagating medium and remains in contact until said dibbers (77) have formed a plant hole and have been withdrawn therefrom.    5. a machine as claimed in claim 1, 2, 3 or 4 characterised by a photoelectric sensing device (10) arranged adjacent to said plunger   head (11),    the light beam associated with said sensing device being directed across the top of a plant cell advanced to a position adjacent to said plunger head (11); said device (10) being operable on sensing the presence of a seedling of predetermined size in the cell to trigger actuation of said plunger means for disengaging said seedling and clod from said cell.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
