<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0010431
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800430
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B24C-9/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
a floor structure for abrasive blasting cabinets.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
vacu blast ltdgb<sep>btr plc<sep>btr plcsilvertown house vincent squarelondon sw1p 2plgb<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
hill eric johngb<sep>hill, eric john<sep>hill, eric john55, quaves roadslough berkshiregb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a pneumatic recovery floor for recovering particles from  an enclosure has a floor plate (7, 8; 28) provided with aper­ tures (12, 16; 37), spaced above a base plate (3; 19; 24), and  substantially the whole of the intervening space between the  floor plate and base plate forms a pneumatic conveying duct  for removing particles which fall through the apertures in the  floor plate.  to provide a uniform air flow in the conveying duct  the base plate may descend in steps or may slope downwards  the air outlet, and/or the width of the duct may increase  towards the air outlet.  to provide uniform air flow over the  floor area and uniform entry into the duct the apertures may  increase in spacing or decrease in size towards the air outlet  end of the duct.  the apertures may be in recesses in the floor  plate, or more than one floor plate may be provided with  coincident apertures, the apertures in the upper plate or plates  being larger than those below.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
"recovery of particulate material" this invention relates to the recovery of particulate material from an enclosure. in particular but not exclusively it relates to an abrasive blasting cabinet or room wherein the abrasive is conveyed from the enclosure after use in order to be cleaned and reused. abrasive blasting systems are well known which comprise an enclosure in which articles are subjected to surface treatment by abrasive particle; with means to recover and clean the spent abrasive so that it can be re-circulated for use again. blasting systems which provide these operations are described in british patent no. 934,088 wherein the abrasive used falls through a floor comprising a plurality of hopper-like pockets and empties througtflapertures from the pockets into ducts which are situated in rows between the hopper-like pockets. in order to afford the operator proper visibility inside the enclosure, ventilation is provided by the entry of air through baffled apertures in the roof. the air is then drawn downwards through the hopper apertures, spaced substantially evenly over the entire floor area. the ventilation air also provides the necessary air streams that carry the used abrasive and debris out of the room through the aforementioned ducts. the enclosure described in british patent no. 934,088, by using a plurality of small hoppers, has a small overall floor thickness compared, for instance, with a single-hopper enclosure. as a result the enclosure can be placed directly on a factory floor, requiring only a shallow ramp for access, or may alternatively be installed in a shallow recess. however, the floor construction is a complicated arrangement of parts assembled together to provide both the hoppers and the conveying ducts. the present invention provides a greatly improved floor construction for the pneumatic recovery of particulate material, in which substantially the entire under-floor area serves as the conveying ducting for removal of the particulate material. the overall thickness of the floor including the ducting is thereby reduced to a minimum. the floor construction is considerably simplified and the manufacturing costs reduced, compared with, for example, the floor construction described in british patent no. 934,088. it is preferred that the conveying ducts have a progressively increasing cross section in the direction of flow of air and particulate material. this is to maintain a reasonably uniform air velocity as more air enters the duct through the floor apertures. however a floor with a constant duct section and thus an increasing duct velocity can still give satisfactory performance, at least in small enclosures. according to the present invention, an apertured floor plate is spaced above a base plate and the intervening space forms a pneumatic conveying duct; the apertures are determined in size and number to allow a controlled quantity of air to enter the duct and so spaced that, should the complete floor be covered with particulate material, the piles of material within the duct will not unduly restrict the flow of air through the duct. the floor construction may comprise a floor plate which is loose or
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:   1. a pneumatic recovery floor structure for particulate material comprising an apertured floor plate (7, 8; 28) spaced above a baseplate (3;   19;    24), the intervening space between the floor plate and base plate forming pneumatic conveying ducting (9; 29) over substantially the entire floor area.   2. a floor structure as claimed in claim 1 in which the apertures (12,   16;    37) in the floor plate (7, 8; 28) are determined in size and number to allow a controlled quantity of air to enter the ducting   (9.    29) and so spaced that should the complete floor be covered with particulate material, the piles of material within the ducting   w?ll    not unduly restrict the flow of air through the ducting.   3. a floor structure as claimed in claim   l    or 2 in which the baseplate (3) is formed in a series of steps (3, 3a, 3b) to increase the effective duct area in the direction of flow and thus maintain a generally constant air velocity in the ducting (9).   4. a floor structure as claimed in claim 3 in which the spacing between steps decreases in the direction of flow.   5. a floor structure as claimed in claim 1 or 2 in which the baseplate   (l9)    is inclined from the horizontal to increase the effective duct area in the direction of flow and thus maintain a generally constant air velocity in the ducting (9).   6. a floor structure as claimed in claim 5 in which the inclination of the baseplate increases in the direction of flow.        7    a floor structure as claimed in claim 1 or 2 in which the apertured floor plate (28) and the baseplate (24) are parallel, with splitter plates (32,33, 34) positioned to define at least one pneumatic conveying duct (29) of increasing area from the inlet (35) to the outlet (36).   8. a floor structure as claimed in any of claims 1 to s in which the spacing of the apertures (12, 16, 37) in the flow plate (7, 8, 28) increases towards the ducting outlet end to provide a uniform air flow over the floor area and uniform rate of entry along the length of the ducting (9; 29).    9. a floor structure as claimed in any of claims 1 to 6 in which the size of the apertures (12, 16, 37) in the floor plate (7, 8; 28) decreases towards the ducting outlet end to provide a uniform air flow over the floor area and uniform rate of entry along the length of the ducting (9; 29).      lo.    a floor structure as claimed in any of claims 1 to 7 in which the apertured floor plate comprises more than one plate (7, 8), with the size of the apertures (12, 16) in the plates (7,8) decreasing downwards to provide a hopper-like entry to the ducting (9; 29).      01.    a floor structure as claimed in any of claims 1 to 7 in which the apertured floor plate (8; 28) has apertures   (12;    37) which are dished or similarly formed to provide a hopper-like entry (44) to the ducting (9; 29).  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
