<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0015108
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800903
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
H01M-10/39 H01M-10/36 H01M-4/02 H01M-4/64 <main>H01M-4/02</main> B29C-37/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
annular electrode structure with porous matrix and method of forming cathode electrode structures for sodium sulphur cells.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
chloride silent power ltdgb<sep>chloride silent power limited<sep>chloride silent power limited52 grosvenor gardenslondon, sw1w 0augb<sep>chloride silent power limited  <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
brennan michael patrick joseph<sep>brennan, michael patrick joseph<sep>brennan, michael patrick joseph30 chester roadhelsby via warrington, wa6 oezgb<sep>brennan, michael patrick joseph<sep>brennan, michael patrick joseph30 chester roadhelsby via warrington, wa6 oezgb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
for a cylindrical sodium sulphur cell, a cathode electrode  structure is provided with improved electronic conductivity in  the radial direction, compared with other directions, by form­ ing a block of fibre material, e. g.  graphite fibres, with the fibres  aligned in one direction (arrow a), slicing the block to form a  sheet 7 with fibres normal to the plane of the sheet, moulding  the sheet 7 and impregnating it with cathodic reactant in a  heated mould having a plurality of ribs, to form a plurality of  trapezoidal segments with the fibres normal to the planes of  the parallel surfaces of the trapezoids, cooling the mould so  that the impregnant is solidified and then forming the  trapezoids into an annular structure.  preferably the mould is  such that thin webs are left joining adjacent trapezoidal sec­ tions along parallel edges of the wider of the two parallel faces  so that the webs form hinges for folding the segments into the  annular assembly.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
"annular electrode structure tilth porous matrix and method of forming cathode electrode structures for sodium sulphur cells" this invention relates to cathodic electrode structures for radium sulphur cells. in a sodium sulphur cell, a solid electrolyte material separates molten sodium, forming the anode, from a sulphur/polysulphide cathodic reactant. the solid electrolyte is a material, such as beta-alur##ina, which conducts sodium ions. on discharge of the cell, the sodium gives up electrons at the anodic interface of the solid elecerolyte. sodium ions pass through the electrolyte into the cathode adjacent the opposite face of the electrolyte. the electrons pass through the sodium to the anode current collector and thence around an external circuit to a cathode current cc#11ector, e.g. a rod or tube formed of or coated with a material chemically inert to the cathodic reactant. the electrons must pass from this cathode current collector to the region of the cathode adjacent the surface of the solid electrolyte where they react with the sulphur to form sulphide ions, sulphide ions and sodium lens form a polysulphide. the electronic conductivity of molten sulphur is low and hence it is the practice to pack the cathodic region with a fibrous. carbon or graphite material to#provide the required electronic co:ductivity# the- fibrous material forming a matrix through which the cathodic reactant can moves sodium sulphur cells are commonly of tubular form. they maybe of the kind known s-a central sodium cell in which the sodium is inside the electrolyte tube and the cathodic region lies between the outer surface of the electrolyte the and a tubular current collector which might constitute or form part of the cell housing. alternatively the cell may be of the type known as a central sulphur cell in which the sodium is-outside the electrolyte tube and the cathodic reactant is in an annular'region between the inner surface of the electrolyte tube and a central current collector rod or tube. in each of these constructions, the cathodic region is of annular form. the common practice has been to use graphite felt as the electronically-conductive packing material in the cathodic region. such felt may be formed for example into annular elements which may be packed axially into the cathodic region, the felt subsequently being impregnated with sulphur. the matrix material in the cathodic region has to be porous to permit of fres: access of the cathodic reactant material to the neighbourhood of the electrolyte. electrically however this conductor forms the path to transfer electrons from the reaction zone to the cathode current collector when charging the cell and provides the path between thc current collector and the regions near the surface of the electrolyte where the sulphide ions have to be formed on discharge of the cell. one of the problems in sodium sulphur cells is to obtain sufficient overall conductance in the cathodic region. this is of particular importance in sodium sulphur cells because these cells can pass very large currents on discharge. the conductance of the carbon matrix material
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:    1. a method of   forming    a cathodic electrode structure for a sodium sulphur cell by: compressing a sheet of electronically conductive fibrous material which is chemically resistant to a hot cathodic reactant containing   sulphur/polysul#'iides    the sheet being compressed in a series of parallel regions to form segments of   trapezcldal    section and impregnating the fibrous material, before compression or whilst compressed, with tha cathodic reactant at a temperature such that   .he      cathodic# reactant    is liquid, and- cooling the impregnated shape to solidify the reactant, characterised in that said sheet is formed from a block of said fibrous material having the fibres in the block predominantly extending in one plane,  by cutting the block in a plurality of planes normal to said one plane to form at least one said sheet in which substantially all the fibres have a component of directio- normal to the plane of -the sheet, and in that the sheet is compressed so that the fibres have a component of direction normal to the parallel surfaces of the trapezoidal segments.    2. a method as claimed in claim 1 characterised in that the   bleak    has fibres randomly oriented in said one plane.      3. a method of forming a cathodic electrode structure for a sodium sulphur cell by compressing a sheet of electronically conductive fibrous material which is chemically resistant to a hot cathodic reactant containing   sulphurlpolysulphides,    the sheet being compressed in a series of   parallel    regions at right angles to the direction of the fibres to form segments of trapezoidal section between the compressed regions, impregnating the fibrous matrix, either before compression or   whilst    compressed, with the   cathodic    reactant at a temperature such that the cathodic reactant is liquid,  and cooling the impregnated shape to solidify the reactant characterised in that said sheet is formed from a block   of,    material with the fibres in the block predominantly extending in one direction by cutting the block in a plurality of planes normal to said one direction to form at least one sheet in which the fibres lie predominantly   normal    to the plane of the sheet; and in that the compression¯ is effected so that the fibres lie predominantly normal to the parallel   surfaces    of the trapezoidal segments.    4. a method as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3 characterised in that the compression to form the trapezoidal segments is effected by moulding in a heated ribbed mould.      5. a method as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3 characterised in that the compression to form the trapezoidal segments is effected in a mould shaped so that the trapezoidal segments   are-joined    by thin webs between the edges of adjacent trapezoidal segments and are dimensioned so that   the trapwzoidal    segments can be formed into an annular assembly.    6. a method as   claimed    in either claim 4 or claim 5 characterised in that the fibre material is compressed in at least one direction normal# to the direction of the fibres before being put in the mould.    7.   an    annular electro#de structure having a porous matrix of electronically-conductive fibrous material with the fibres lying in generally radial directions, #the matrix being impregnated with an electro-chemical reactant material which is solid at room temperature. said structure comprising a   plurality-of    segments, each an elongate member of trapezoidal form-in- cross-section.    8. an electrode structure as claimed in claim 7 characterised in that the-shaping is such that the material is formed into   ^    planar assembly of shaped segments joined by thin webs,   the    shaped segments each   being a        orion    of an annulus with the webs forming hinges parallel to the axis of the annulus whereby the shaped structure is foldable to form the required annular structure.    9. an annular cathodic   electrode    structure for a sodium sulphur cell and having a porous matrix of electronically-conductive material impregnated with an electro-chemical reactant material comprising sulphur/ sodium polysulphides which is solid at room temperature, said   electrode    structure comprising a plurality of segments shaped as elongated members of trapezoidal form in cross-section, each of which segments is joined to at least one of its neighbouring segments along a longer edge of the segment, which edge is an edge defined by the end of the longer parallel side of the trapezoid in cross-section and in which the fibres extend predominantly in directions normal to said parallel sides.     10. an annular electrode structure as claimed in any of claims 7 to 9 and   haring    a layer of fibrous carbon material of higher electrical conductivity than the fibres of the aforesaid matrix adjacent one of the parallel faces   o;    each trapezoidal segment.      11. an annular electrode structure as claimed in claim 10 characterised in that said layer lies against the narrower of the parallel faces and extends along the side faces of each trapezoidal segment.    12. an annular electrode structure as claimed in either claim   1c    or claim 11 characterised in that said layer is a sheet of carbon fibre cloth.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
