<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0007702
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800206
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<main>A61B-5/04</main> A61B-5/0448 A61B-5/02 A61B-5/0402 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
apparatus for use in physiological monitoring.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
neward theodore chester<sep>neward, theodore chester<sep>neward, theodore chester521 scripps driveclaremont californiaus<sep>neward, theodore chester<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
neward theodore chester<sep>neward, theodore chester<sep>neward, theodore chester521 scripps driveclaremont californiaus<sep>neward, theodore chester<sep>neward, theodore chester521 scripps driveclaremont californiaus<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
an electrode and carrier assembly is disclosed for  attachment to a biological subject, such as a fetus during labor  and delivery to monitor the fetal heart rate.  the electrode  structure includes a clip-like body having clamping portions  (16, 18) and members (23) adapted to engage cam surfaces  (36, 38) within a carrier (12).  while the electrode structure is  housed within the carrier the clamping portions are held  apart.  attachment is accomplished by placing the carrier  against the subject and moving the members into engage­ ment with the cam surfaces, whereby the cam surfaces eject  the electrode structure from the carrier by the cam action thus  allowing the clamping portions thereof to clamp onto the  subject's skin.  the carrier may then be removed completely,  leaving only the electrode structure with its associated wiring  (22).  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
clip electrodes the present invention relates to electrodes, and more particularly to an electrode, and carrier therefor, suitable for attachment to a fetus during labor and delivery to monitor the fetal heart rate. it is desirable to monitor the fetal heart rate continuously during labor and delivery in order to obtain an immediate indication of the presence of undue distress or danger to the fetus. devices attached external to the mother's body have proven inadequate for this purpose because they do not clearly distinguish the fetal heart rate from that of the mother. therefore, various devices have been developed for attachment directly to the fetus during labor. an early device of this type consisted of a "c" shaped wire, insulated except at the opposed tips thereof, which was inserted into the uterus and attached to the fetal scalp manually or by a forcep. this device was difficult to manipulate and insert, and did not attach securely to the fetus. later devices were developed that screwed into the skin, such as those disclosed in hon et al u.s. patent no. re. 28,990 and ruttgers patent no. 3,750,650. tachick u.s. patent no. 3,472,234 discloses another screw-type electrode. these devices require a manual attachment technique that is unusual and difficult for a physician to perform. other intrauterine fetal monitoring devices have taken various forms. egan u.s. patent no. 3,326,207 discloses a pair of contact electrodes mounted on balloons. lacroix u.s. patent no. 3,580,242 discloses a barbed, fishhook-like electrode inserted by a forcep. hunter, jr. et al, u.s. patent no. 3,120,227 discloses a spring steel electrode having forcep-like branches that converge sharply to a point. a cylindrical sleeve must remain in the uterus to engage the branches and hold them together, making this device cumbersome to work with. in neward u.s. patent no. 3,989,038, there is disclose a clip-like fetal electrode having opposed jaws normally held together by spring tension, mounted on a long tube which may be removed after the electrode is attached to the fetus. attachment, however, is accomplished by manipulatic of one of the jaws through a rachet and cam assembly in a manner which may be awkward for a physician to perform while the electrode is inserted into the uterus. an alternate means for inserting an electrode into a body cavity is disclosed in kilpatrick u,s. patent no. 3,087,48e consisting of a tubular carrier sleeve containing a plunger which is depressed to drive the electrode into the tissue, after which the sleeve may be withdrawn from the body. the insertion sleeve, however, is disclosed in connection with a cardiac electrode, and is therefore quite rigid since it must penetrate the chest wall. a similar rigid penetration tool is disclosed in quint u.s. patent no. 3,416,534, but in connection with a helix-shaped cardiac electrode that is screwed into the myocardium and therefore has the same disadvantages as the screwtype electrodes described in the patents mentioned above. another cardiac electrode in the form of a spiral is disclosed in rasor et al,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims    1. apparatus for use in physiological monitoring comprising  a clip-type electrode structure (10) having a pair of clamping members (16, 18), at least one of said members being of metal to serve as an electrode,  means (22) for connecting said metal electrode to monitoring equipment,  means (20) for urging said members together in a clamping fashion,  carrier means (12) for housing said electrode structure prior to use with the clamping members separated, and  means (29, 31, 36, 38) for at least partially ejecting said electrode structure from said carrier means to allow said clamping members to be forced together and become attached to a subject   when a said    carrier means is placed against such subject.    2. apparatus as in claim 1 wherein said means for urging said clamping members together comprise a pair of legs (23) on said electrode structure and separated by a spring (20) attached thereto.    3. apparatus as in claim 2 wherein said means for at least partially ejecting said electrode structure from said carrier means comprise pair of cam surfaces (36, 38) in the carrier means for engagement with mating surfaces (29, 31) of said legs (23).    4. apparatus as in claim 1 wherein said carrier means comprises an elongated tube 13) having a plunger (40) extending therethrough for partially ejecting said electrode structure (10) from said carrier means.      5. apparatus adapted for use with a physiological monitoring electrode comprising  a substantially cylindrical tube (13),  a plunger (40) extending through said tube,  a housing (11) at one end of said tube for receiving a physiological monitoring electrode, and  means for at least partially ejecting said electrode from said housing, said means including a cam surface (36, 38) within said housing for engaging a mating surface on said electrode.    6. a physiological monitoring electrode structure for association with a carrier having cam surfaces therein, said electrode structure comprising  a pair of opposed clamping members (16, 18), at least one of said members being of metal to serve as an electrode, and  a pair of legs (23) connected to said members and separated by a spring (20) which urges said members together, said legs having mating surfaces (29, 31) for engagement with said cam surfaces whereby said electrode structure (10) may be at least partially ejected from said carrier when said mating surfaces engage with said cam surfaces.    7. a fetal monitoring apparatus comprising a clip  type electrode structure (10) having a pair of clamping members (16, 18), at least one of said members being of metal to serve as an electrode,  a pair of legs (23) on said electrode structure separated by a spring (20) for urging said members together in a clamping fashion,    means (22) for connecting said electrode to monitoring equipment,  an elongated tube (13) having a housing (11) at one end thereof for receiving said electrode structure and means for keeping said clamping members separated while said structure is housed therein by engaging said legs mounted on said electrode structure and thereby compressing said spring,  cam means (36, 38) within said housing for engaging mating surfaces (29, 31) on said legs, and  a plunger (40) extending through said tube for causing said mating surfaces to engage said cam means,  whereby said electrode structure may be at least partially ejected from said housing and said clamping members may be forced together and become attached to a subject when said housing is placed against such subject.    8. apparatus adapted for use with a physiological monitoring electrode comprising  a substantially cylindrical tube (120),  a housing (114) at one end of said tube for receiving a physiological monitoring electrode,  a plunger (162) extending through said tube, said plunger having a u-shaped distal end for engaging an electrode received within said housing,  means (143, 145) for at least partially ejecting an electrode from said housing by exerting pressure on said plunger, and  means (164, 166) mounted upon said housing for gathering the skin of a subject for facilitating secure attachment of an electrode thereto.      9. a fetal monitoring apparatus comprising a clip  type electrode structure having a pair of clamping members (116, 118), at least one of said members being of metal to serve as an electrode,  a pair of legs (146, 148) on said electrode structure and separated by a spring (152) for urging said members together in a clamping fashion,  means (126) for connecting said electrode to monitoring equipment,  an elongated tube (120) having a housing (114) at one end thereof for receiving said electrode structure and means for keeping said clamping members separated while said electrode structure is housed therein by engaging said legs mounted on said electrode structure and thereby compressing said spring,  cam means (143, 145) within said housing for engaging mating surfaces (142,  144) on said legs,  a plunger (162) extending through said tube and having a u-shaped proximal end for engaging said electrode structure and for causing said electrode structure to engage said cam means upon the application of pressure against the distal end of said plunger, whereby said electrode structure may be least partially ejected from said housing and said clamping members may be forced together and thereby become attached to a subject when said housing is placed against such   subject,    and  means (164, 166) mounted upon said housing for gathering the skin of the subject against whom said housing may be placed and thereby facilitating the secure attachment of said clamping members thereto.       10. a physiological monitoring electrode structure adapted to be received within a carrier having cam surfaces formed therein, said electrode structure comprising a pair of opposed sharpened wires (116, 118) mounted upon arm members (138, 140) of said electrode structure, each arm member being connected to a respective leg member (146, 148), said pairs of arm and leg members being joined by a flexible web (150), and said leg members being connected by a spring (152) which urges said sharpened wires together and having mating surfaces (142, 144) for engagement with said cam surfaces whereby said electrode structure may be at least partially ejected from said carrier when said mating surfaces engage with said cam surfaces.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
