<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0011466
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800528
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B23K-11/30 B23K-35/02 <main>B23K-35/00</main> 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
a bimetal resistance welding electrode and method of making same.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
nippert co us  <sep>the nippert company<sep>the nippert company801 pittsburgh drivedelaware ohio 43015us<sep>the nippert company <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
nippert russell a<sep>nippert, russell a.<sep>nippert, russell a.c/o the nippert company 801 pittsburgh drivedelaware, ohio 43015us<sep>nippert, russell a. <sep>nippert, russell a.c/o the nippert company 801 pittsburgh drivedelaware, ohio 43015us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a bimetal resistance welding electrode has a dispersion  strengthened copper tip (15) and a high conductivity copper  shank (17).  it is made by forming a tip member in two suc­ cessive upsetting operations to produce a tip member hav­ ing a coating of high conductivity copper (67 in the finally  extruded electrode) covering substantially all of one end  thereof.  a solid, high conductivity copper, cylindrical billet is  formed and brazed (at 19) to the tip member at its coated end  to form an extrusion blank.  the extrusion blank is back-­ extruded with the high conductivity copper material being  worked substantially, while only partially back extruding the  tip portion of the extrusion blank.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
a bimetal resistance welding electrode and method of making same the present invention relates to resistance welding and, more particularly, to an improved electrode for use in a resistance welding device. resistance welding has long been used as a quick and effective method of joining metal members. the workpieces to be welded are placed in an abutting relationship and a large current is caused to flow across the boundary between the members by a pair of opposed electrodes. the current causes the surfaces of the workpieces to be heated sufficiently to cause the formation of a weld nugget. typically, the electrodes apply significant pressure to the workpiece during welding. this facilitates the welding process by urging the material together and, also, reducing electrical resistance between the electrode tip and the workpiece material. since the welding is accomplished by resistance heating of the material being welded, it will be appreciated that the electrodes will also be heated substantially. it is important to have an electrode of high electrical conductivity in order to minimize the power loss in the electrode and the resulting heating of the electrode. it is also important to have an electrode which is capable of withstanding significant distorting force at the elevated temperatures which result from the welding process. hollow electrodes have long been used for resistance welding with cooling fluid supplied to the interior cavity in order to reduce substantially the temperature of the electrode shank. it will be appreciated, however, that this method of cooling has certain limitations and, further, that the electrode tip cannot be cooled effectively in this manner. electrodes have, in the past, been formed of high conductivity copper in order to minimize the power loss in the electrodes. such electrode material has a relatively limited life, however, which is due in large part to deformation of the electrode tip after repeated welding operations at high temperature and pressure. it has been the usual practice to reshape or redress the electrode tips to the desired shape. this can be accomplished only a limited number of times, however, and eventually the electrode must be discarded. not only is it expensive to discard such electrodes, but the down time of the welding machine for replacement of redressed electrodes may be even more expensive. in order to minimize the cost of scrapping copper electrodes, two piece electrodes having a replaceable electrode tip and a reusable shank have been used. u.s. patent no. 2,440,463, issued april 27, 1948, to cornwall, u.s. patent no. 2,780,718, issued february 5, 1957, to mullen, u.s. patent no. 2,829,239, issued april 1, 1958, to boretti, and u.s. patent no. 2,402,646, issued june 25, 1946, to leathers, all show replaceable electrode tips which are frictionally engaged by a shank portion of the electrode. u.s. patent no. 2,437,740, issued march 16, 1948, to haynes, and u.s. patent no. 2,472,173, issued june 7, 1949, to powell, show mechanical brackets or set screw arrangements for holding the replaceable welding electrode tip. such a replaceable tip may
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims   1. a method of making a bimetal resistive welding electrode having a tip portion (15) formed of a dispersion strengthened copper and a shank portion (17) formed of a high conductivity copper, characterised by the steps of forming a tip member (31) of dispersion strengthened copper (33) having a high conductivity copper coating (35) across at least one end (37) thereof, forming a cylindrical billet (43) of high conductivity copper, brazing said cylindrical billet to said one end (37) of the tip member to form a bimetal extrusion blank (50) having a tip portion   (ski)    formed of dispersion strengthened copper and a shank portion (53) formed of annealed high conductivity copper, and extruding the shank portion (53) of the bimetal extrusion blank into a hardened electrode shank (17) while only partially extruding the tip portion (51) of said bimetal extrusion blank,  thereby forming a full-hard bimetal electrode.   2. a method as claimed in claim 1, in which the extruding step comprises the step of back extruding the shank portion (53) of the bimetal extrusion blank (50) such that a central cavity (65) is formed in the electrode.   3. a method as claimed in claim 1 or 2, in which the tip member (31) is formed from a length of dispersion strengthened copper wire or rod (21) having a high conductivity copper coating (25) around its circumference, and in which the step of forming the tip member (31) of dispersion strengthened copper includes cold working said dispersion strengthened copper wire or rod.   4. a method as claimed in claim 3, in which the dispersion strengthened copper wire or rod (21) is cold worked so that its cross-sectional area is increased at least   50ffi.      5. a method as claimed in claim 1, 2, 3 or 4, in which the step of forming the tip member   t31j    of dispersion strengthened copper includes the steps of cutting a length of dispersion strengthened copper wire or rod (21) of the desired quantity (23) for the electrode tip, upsetting  the wire or rod along its length to form a generally cylindrical dispersion strengthened copper billet (27) having a coating (29) of high conductivity copper extending circumferentially therearound, and upsetting the cylindrical dispersion strengthened copper billet (27) in a direction perpendicular to the axis thereof to form said tip member.   6. a method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, in   which    the step of brazing the cylindrical billet (43) to said one end of the tip member (31) includes placing a brazing material (49) between the billet and the tip member, and heating the billet, braze material,    0 and tip member, for example, to approximately 870 c in an    atmosphere having 4#, or less, hydrogen.   7. a method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, in which the tip member (31) has a negative locator recess (41) disposed in said one end (37), and the cylindrical billet (43) has a positive locator protrusion (45) on the adjacent end thereof, and in which the protrusion is inserted into the recess when the billet and tip member are brazed together.   8. a bimetal resistance welding electrode characterised by a hollow, extrusion-hardened, shank portion (17) of high conductivity copper, a dispersion strengthened tip portion (15) of a copper-aluminium alloy which is internally oxidized, such as a copper and aluminium oxide alloy, having a high conductivity copper coating (67) on the upper surface thereof, and a brazed connection (19) between the shank portion and the upper surface to the tip portion.    9. a welding electrode as claimed in claim 8, in which the alloy of the tip portion (15) is cold-worked and the part of the shank portion (17) adjoining the brazed connection   t19)    is work hardened throughout.   10. a welding electrode as claimed in claim 8 or 9, in which the brazed connection (19) is adjacent the central  cavity (65) in the hollow shank portion (17) such that the brazed connection and the shank portion may be effectively cooled by a cooling liquid supplied to said cavity during resistance welding.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
