<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0012781
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800709
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
F16H-21/00 F01B-1/08 F01B-1/00 F16H-21/30 <main>F16H-21/30</main> 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
expansible chamber apparatus with pairs of cylindrical rollers.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
hopkins walter m<sep>hopkins, walter m.<sep>hopkins, walter m.1306 w. glenoaksglendale ca.91201us<sep>hopkins, walter m.<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
hopkins walter m<sep>hopkins, walter m.<sep>hopkins, walter m.1306 w. glenoaksglendale ca.91201us<sep>hopkins, walter m.<sep>hopkins, walter m.1306 w. glenoaksglendale ca.91201us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
expansible-chamber apparatus with pairs of cylindrical  rollers (16,18) each having an exterior surface in continuous  rolling engagement with the surface of the other roller of the  pair, the rollers (16,18) being rotatable along parallel axes  (26), and two parallel side walls (20,22), with each one of the  rollers (16,18) also being in continuous rolling engagement  with one of the side walls (20,22).  a third wall (12,14) is  opposite the rollers (16,18) and joins the two side walls  (20,22) wherein the chamber is defined between these walls  and the pair of rollers (16,18), and is enclosed.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
background of the inv2ntion alternately expanding and contractinf chambers are well known in the art, which devices employ various forces or rings or sliding surface to achieve sealing between adjacent parts. commonly known is the piston-type combustion engine @@@@@@ employing a closed cylinder, in which a piston ###### ## a crankshaft and connecting rod, provides an alternately expanding and contracting chamber. similarly, the well-known wanker engine utilizes scraping edge seals between the rotating piston and chamber inner surfaces by which the gases are compressed and expanded. obviously, such apparatus result in substantial friction between the contacting components thereby causing wear. in an attempt to avoid these continually aaring seals or rings between moving parts, rotary engines have been proposed in u.s. patents 1,349,882 and 2,097,881. the earlier patent employs four elliptical pistons between which the narrow spaces are sealed by spring-actuated rollers in the latter patent, four elliptical rollers are in contact to define' a combustion chamfer therebetween. the problem wlt the aforesaid designs is their limitation because of the number of pistons or rollers as well as their shapes. precise synchronization is required between the rotating and non-cylindrical rotors or pistons which is a signiricant disadvantage in apparatus design, as well as limiting the compression ratio of the chamber. summary of the invention the apparatus c the present invention utilizes at least one pair of rotating cj c,¯ ical members or rollers which aremaintaned in co@@i rolling contact with one another and with two opposite side walls, and which walls are preferably adjustable so as to maintain contact with the respective rollers and force them to make contact wit each other, thereby compensating for any wear. this contact between the rollers and the side walls, which is continuous and held firmly, and preferably substantially along the entire roller lengths, obviates the necessity of seals and at the same time minimizes frictional wear, thus, greatly increasing the longevity of the apparatus and reducing the incidence of repairs. the apparatus provides at least one alternately expanding and contracting chamber sealed and defined between the rollers and the housing means. the cavity may be used for treating gases; liquids or slurries. thus, use of such apparatus may be for engines, pumps, motors, compressors, valves and other power transfer devices and the like. the apparatus is not only a significant improvement because of its relative simplicity of design and reduction in operating costs and repairs but is economically manufactured because of the small number of parts as compared to the devices that require rings, seals, valves, and attendant operating components. the apparatus of the invention -also achieves improved economy of performance and maintenance because the rolling action of the rollers themselves which seal the thamber require no lubrication of the roller wall or the major portion of the cavity surfaces. further, because of the reduction of individual parts in the apparatus, and because the chamber itself is defined between the end and side walls, and the rollers, substantial reduction in weight can be
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claim 1. an apparatus having an alternately   cxpanding      and contracting chamber comprising:  at least one pair of cylindrical rollers each having an  exterior surface in continuous rolling engagement with  the surface of the other roller of said pair, said  rollers being rotatable along parallel axes,  said chamber being defined between first and second  parallel side walls, at least one end wall spaced from  said rollers and top and bottom plates; said rollers  being in continuous rolling contact with said side  walls, and in end sealing relationship with said top  and bottom plates.    claim 2. an apparatus having an alternately expanding and contracting chamber comprising a plurality of four or more even numbered cylindrical rollers rotatable about an axis, each having an exterior surface in rolling engagement with the surface of an adjacent roller, said rollers being aligned whereby the respective roller axes lie along a single plane, first and second parallel side walls, a roller at each end of said plurality of rollers being in rolling contact with said side walls, and an end wall spaced from said rollers, whereby said chamber is defined between said rollers said walls and top and bottom plates, said top and bottom plates sealingly engaging respective ends at said rollers.      claim 3. an apparatus having an   alternately    expanding and contracting chamber comprising a pair of cylindrical rollers each having an exterior surface in continuous rolling engagement with the surface of the other roller of said pair, said rollers being rotatable along parallel axes, said rollers being disposed in a chamber housing defined internally between first and second parallel side walls, wherein one roller of said pair of rollers is in rolling engagement with said first side wall and the other roller of said pair is in rolling engagement with said second side wall, a   third-wall    joining said first and second side walls, said third wall being spaced from said rollers, a pair of opposed end plates for enclosing said chamber and in   seating    engagement with said first,  second and third walls and said rollers, and means for coupling said rollers to the exterior of said chamber whereby rotational movement of said rollers is coupled to the exterior of said chamber.    claim 4. an apparatus having an alternately expanding and contracting chamber comprising a plurality of four or more even numbered cylindrical rollers rotatable about an axis, each having an exterior surface in rolling engagement with the surface of an adjacent roller, said rollers being aligned whereby the respective roller axes lie along a single plane, first and second parallel side walls, a roller at each end of said plurality of rollers being in rolling engagement with a different one of said side walls, a third wall joining said first and second side walls, said third wall being spaced  irom said rollers, a pair of opposed end   rjacs    for enclosing said chamber and sealingly engaging said   third    wall, said   f@rst    and second side walls and said rollers,  whereby said   cflainber.is    defined internally between said rollers, said   walls    and said end plates, and means for causing said plurality-of rollers to rotatably move simultaneously toward or away from said third wall.    claim 5. the apparatus of claim 1 wherein different rollers of said pair of rollers are in rolling contact with opposite side walls, respectively.    claim 6. the apparatus of claim 1 comprising one pair of rollers and wherein one roller of said pair is in   rowing    contact with said first side wal ]  and the other roller is in rolling contact   with    said second side wall.    claim 7. the apparatus of claim 1 including a second end wall spaced from said rollers, whereby a first chamber is defined between said rollers and said one end wall, and a second chamber is defined between said rollers and said second end   wall.       claim 8. the apparatus of claim 6 wherein said rollers are elongated, have substantially equal lengths, and are in rolling contact with each other substantially along    @@eir entire respective, m@@@@@       claim 9. the apparatus of claim 8 wherein said rollers have substantially equal   diameters     claim 10. the apparatus of claim 1, 2, 3 or    wi    including crank means cooperating with said rollers for imparting rotation thereto.    claim 11. the apparatus of claim 6 including a crank arm eccentric mounting rotatably secured in one end of each of said rollers, a crank arm journaled into said mounting, and a crankshaft for driving said crank arm.    claim 12. the   apparatus    of claim 1, 2, 3 or 4 comprising two pairs of said rollers, each pair having a first rol'er in rolling contact with the first side wall and a second roller in rolling contact with the second side wall.    claim 13. the apparatus of claim 1, 2, 3 or 4 including a second end wall spaced from said rollers; a first chamber being defined between one pair of rollers and said first end wall, and a second chamber is defined between the other pair of rollers and said second end wall.    claim 14. the apparatus of claim 13 including means for rotating said pairs of rollers simultaneously in the same direction.        @@@ the apparatus    of claim 13 including means    @iing    said pairs of rollers simultaneously in opposite    h@@    alternately expanding and   @ing    chamber is defined between said pairs of rollers.    claim 16. the apparatus of claim 13 including crank means cooperating   with    said rollers for imparting    @o@@tion    thereof.    claim 17. the apparatus of claim 16 herein said crank means comprises a pair of cranks, a pair of connecting ro---s driven by each crank, each rod pivotally connected to a diffefrent one of said rollers.     claim 18. the apparatus of claim 10 wherein said crank means comprises a crankshaft, crank, and a pair of connecting arms each secured to one of said rollers.    claim 19. the apparatus of claim 2 including drive means for rotating said rollers.    claim 20. the apparatus of claim   5      including    a fourth all   joining    said first and second side walls, said fourth wall being spaced   8rom    said rollers whereby a first chamber is defined between said third wall, said pair of rollers, said side    @lle      @@@    said and   @@@    and a second chamber is defined   between said fourth wall, said pair of rollers, said side walls and said end plates.    claim 21. the apparatus in accordance   with    claim 1, 2, 3 or 4 wherein at least one of said rollers is hollow and includes end seals in sealing contact with a respective end plate, crank means journaled through at least one of said end plates, extending through one of said seals and coupled to said roller for   transmittin    rotational movement   between    said roller and the exterior of said chambers.    claim 22. the apparatus of claim 20 including two pairs of rollers and crank means cooperating with the   cwo    pairs of rollers for imparting rotation thereto, wherein said crank means includes at least one   çrankshaft    journaled into at least one of said chamber walls, and wherein said crankshaft and at least one roller of each said pair of rollers are connected by crank arm and connecting link means.    claim 23. the apparatus in accordance with claim 21 wherein said end seals comprise rings engaging the end of said rollers and at least one of said rings encircles said crank means to provide sealing at said crank from said chamber in addition to sealing said rollers with respect to said chamber.    claim 24. the apparatus of claim 1, 2,   3,    or 4 including at least one opening communicating with the interior    said chamber   @@.    permitting   @@tr@uce      @r    exit of substances    fl@ids    to or from said chamber.    claim 25. the apparetus of claim 4 including a fourth   11    joining said first and second side walls, said fourth wall benin spaced from said rollers whereby a first chamber is defined between said third   wall,    said rollers, said-side   walls      a2d    said end plates, and   second    chamber is defined between said fourth wall. said   @ollers.    said side walls and said end plates.    claim 26. the combination in accordance with claim 4 including means coupling said plurality of four or   mo    even numbered cylindrical rollers for simultaneous longitudinal movement toward or away   frorr,    said third and fourth   walls.       claim 27. the apparatus of claim 1, 2, 3 or   4    wherein at least one of said rollers comprises an elongated cylindrical segment with a   discontinuous    exterior surface of equal radius wherein one roller of said pair of rollers is in rolling engagement with said first side wall, and the other roller of said pair is in rolling engagement with said second side wall, and wherein said rollers are in rolling engagement with each other.       claim 28, the epp@ratus of claim 4 wterein at least     one roller of said plurality of rollers comprises an elongated cylindrical segment with a discontinuous exterior surface of equal radius wherein said roller is in rolling engagement with at least one other roller of said plurality of rollers, and inrolling engagement   tith      t      second      roller    of said   plurality    of rollers or a respective side wall.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
