<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0010358
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800430
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
C07D-499/88 C07D-503/00 C07D-499/06 A61K-31/41 A61P-31/00 C07D-205/09 C07D-499/00 C07D-499/897 C07D-205/00 C07D-205/08 A61P-31/04 C07D-499/04 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
beta-lactam compounds, processes for their preparation, compositions containing them, intermediates of use in their preparation and methods for the production thereof.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
glaxo group ltdgb <sep>glaxo group limited<sep>glaxo group limited clarges house 6-12 clarges street london w1y 8dhgb<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
watson nigel stephengb<sep>watson, nigel stephen<sep>watson, nigel stephen5 ruislip roadgreenford middlesexgb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
β-lactam compounds, processes for their preparation,  pharmaceutical compositions containing them and intermediates  of use in their preparation are disclosed.  more particularly,  novel compounds of the general formula (i),    wherein r¹ represents a grouping of formula -r³. nh. r⁴  [where r³ represents a group -cnh₂n -where n is an integer  from 1 to 6 and r⁴ represents an acyl group of formula -cyra  -cy. zrb or -cy. nhra (in which y and z, which may be the  same or different, each represents oxygen or sulphur); ra  represents a hydrogen atom; or an alkyl group which contains  from 1 to 4 carbon atoms, optional substituents being  selected from one or more of halogen, cyano, azido, amino,  c₁₋₄ alkylthio, hydroxy, c₁₋₄ alkoxy and thiol; or an aralkyl  group having up to 10 carbon atoms, optional substituents on  the phenyl group when the aralkyl group is a benzyl group  being selected from hydroxy of sulphonamido, optional substituents  on the alkyl portion being selected from azido,  amino, carboxyl or hydroxy;   or an aryl group having up to 10 carbon atoms, optional  substituents when the aryl group is a phenyl group being  selected from halogen, cyano, c₁₋4 alkoxy or c₁₋₄ alkyl;  and rb represents a methyl or ethyl group];   r2a represents a carboxyl esterifying group or a hydrogen  atom;   and b represents a group s or s→o; and salts thereof are  provided.  the compounds have been found to be active  against a range of gram-positive and gram-negative microorganisms  and to be stable, in general, to the action of  β-lactamases produced by some gram-positive and gram-negative  organisms.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
"ss-lactam compounds, processes for their preparation, compositions containing them and intermediates of use in their preparation" this invention relates to novel penems having antibiotic activity, to processes for their preparation, to pharmaceutical compositions containing them and to intermediates of use in the preparation of antibiotics. according to one feature of the present invention there are provided compounds of general formula emi1.1 wherein r1 represents a grouping of formula -r3.nh.r4 [where r represents a group -cnh2n- where n is an integer from 1 to 6 and r represents an acyl group of forttriila -cyra, -cy.zrb or cy.nh.ra (in which y and z, which may be the same or different, each represents oxygen or sulphur); ra represents a hydrogen atom or (a) an alkyl group which may contain from 1 to 4 carbon atoms, for example, a methyl, ethyl, propyl or isopropyl, butyl, sec-butyl or tert-butyl group, optional substituents being for example selected from one or more of halogen e.g. fluorine, chlorine or bromine; cyano; azido; amino; hydroxy; c1 4 alkoxy, thiol, and c1 4 alkylthio, (b) an aralkyl group having up to 10 carbon atoms especially an arylmethyl group e.g. a benzyl or substituted benzyl group, suitable substituents bn the phenyl ring of a benzyl group being hydroxy, e.g. p-hydroxy, or sulphonamido, e.g. m-sulphonamido and suitable substituents on the methylene group of a benzyl group including azido, amino, carboxyl or hydroxy and protected forms thereof, or (c) an aryl group having up to 10 carbon atoms e.g. a phenyl or substituted phenyl group, suitable substituents being halogen e.g. chlorine; cyano; b alkoxy e.g. methoxy or alkyl e.g. methyl, and r- represents a methyl or ethyl group]; 2a rz represents a carboxyl esterifying group or a hydrogen atom; and b represents a group,\ s or0; and salts thereof. compounds according to the invention may be of use as antibiotics as detailed below or may be useful as intermediates in the preparation of active compounds or in the purification of active compounds. the compounds as shown in formula (i) have the 5r-6onfiguration but the invention extends not only to such individual isomers but also to mixtures of the compounds of formula (i) with the corresponding 5s-isomers,for example in racemic mixtures. b preferably represents the group sus. in the group r , the group -c h2n- represented n 2n by r3 may have a straight or branched chain and n is preferably from 1 to 4 as, for example, in a methylene or ethylene group. groups -nhr which are of particular interest include formamido, acetamido, ureido, methylureido and phenylureido, and formamido is especially preferred. when when r represents a carboxyl esterifying group, it may for example be an organic group derived from an alcohol (aliphatic or araliphatic), a phenol, a silanol or a stannanol. such an alcohol, phenol, silanol or stannanol used to esterify the carboxyl group preferably contains not more than 24 carbon atoms. 2a thus, the group r may represent a straight or branched unsubstituted or substituted alkyl or alkenyl group, preferably
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims 1. compounds of general formula emi52.1       wherein   r1    represents a grouping of formula   -r3.nh.r4       3 [where r represents a group -cn h2n wnere n is an    integer from 1 to 6 and r represents an acyl group of formula   -cyra      -cy.zrb   or   -cy.nhr.    (in which y and z, which may be the same or different, each represents oxygen or sulphur); ra represents a hydrogen atom; or an alkyl group which contains from 1 to 4 carboh atoms, optional substituents being selected from one or more of halogen, cyano, azido, amino,   c14    alkylthio, hydroxy,   c1 4    alkoxy and   this;    or an aralkyl group having up to 10 carbon atoms, optional   substit.uents    on the phenylgroup when the aralkyl group is a benzyl group being selected from hydroxy or sulphonamido, optional substituents on the alkyl portion being selected from azido, amino, carboxyl or hydroxy;  or an aryl group having up to 10 carbon atoms, optional substituents when the aryl group is a phenyl group being selected from halogen, cyano,   c1 4    alkoxy or   c14    alkyl;  and rb represents a methyl or ethyl group)]; ;     2a  r represents a carboxyl esterifying group or a     hydrogen atom;  and b represents a group emi53.1       and salts thereof.   2. compounds as claimed in claim 1 wherein n is   froin    1 to 4, and b is a group emi53.2       3. compounds as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein n is 2 4. compounds as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3 wherein   rú    represents a formamido, acetamido, ureido, methylureido or phenylureido group.   5. (5rs)-2-(2-formamidoethyl)pen-2-em-3-carboxylic acid and salts thereof.   6. a process for the preparation of compounds of formula (i) which comprises reacting a compound of the  formula (ii) emi53.3        wherein  r la   is   as defined above for r (except that any amino, carboxyl, hydroxy or thiol groups should be in protected from) or represents a group of formula   -r3.rc    (where r3 is as defined above and   rc    represents an azido or protected amino group);     r2 represents a carboxyl esterifying group as  2a    defined above for r    a; ;     r5 represents a halogen atom or a group of formula   -nrxryrz    (in which   rx,      ray    and   rz,    which may be the same or different, each represents an aliphatic, araliphatic or  aromatic group or two of   rx,    ry and   rz    together with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached represent a five-, six- or   seven-membered    heterocyclic ring optionally containing a further heteroatom and the third of rx, ry and   rz    is as defined above or   rx,      ry    and   rz    together with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached form an aromacic heterocyclic ring or an aromatic or nonaromatic polycyclic heterocyclic system); ;    r6     and r represents a leaving group, for example a halogen atom or an acylated or etherified hydroxy group group] with hydrogen sulphide (where necessary in the presence of a base) or with a hydrosulphide or sulphide salt, followed where   r ia      is   different from   r    in the desired compound of formula   (i) by    conversion to a group of formula   -r3nh2    (where   r3    is as hereinbefore defined) and subsequent acylation to give the desired compound of formula (i) deesterification being optionally effected before, during or after said conversion of a group rla     3 into a group -r nh2i if desired,  subsequently converting    a compound of   formula ci)    in which b is   #s    into a corresponding compound wherein   b    is   sk o;    and/or if desired, converting the compound of formula (i) into a salt thereof; and/or, if desired, converting a compound of formula (i) in which rêa represents a hydrogen atom, or a salt thereof, into a corresponding ester, and/or, if desired, separating a mixture of sr-and 5sisomers to produce an individual   sr-isomer.      7. a process for the preparation of-compounds of formula   (i)    which comprises reacting a compound of formula (ia)   emi55.1       (wherein r1b is a grouping of formula -r3nh2 where r3 is as defined in claim 1 and r2a and b are as defined in claim 1) with an acylating agent, and/or if desired, converting the compound of formula (i) into a salt thereof; and/or, if desired, converting a compound of formula (i) in with r2a represents a hydrogen atom, or a salt thereof, into a corresponding ester and/or, if desired where the, 5r-isomer of formula (ia) is admixed with corresponding ss-isomers, separating the mixture of isomers so produced to yield an individual   sr-isomer.      8. a process as claimed in claim 7 wherein acylation is carried out in the presence of a bis-trialkyl tin oxide.   9. pharmaceutical compositions comprising a compound of formula (i) as defined in claim 2 in which r2a represents a hydrogen atom or a metabolically labile carboxyl esterifying group or a salt of such a compound of formula (i) in association with a pharmaceutical carrier or excipient.   10. compounds of the general formula   (viii),    emi55.2       wherein r1c is as defined for   ria    in claim 5 other than a group of formula -r3n3 where r3 is as defined  in claim 1;   rê    represents a carboxyl esterifying group; and either m represents a halogen atom or a group r9 (in which   r9    represents a group -sr10 or a group emi56.1       where r10 is an aliphatic, araliphatic, aromatic or heterocyclic group; and r 6a represents a hydroxyl group or a leaving group; or m represents a group of formula    -nr ryr    (where.  rx, by and   rz    are as defined in.claim 6) and     6a r6a represents a leaving group; or z represents a    group #  -nrxryrz    (where rx, ry and rz are as defined in claim 6) and r6a represents s# or o#.       11. a process for the preparation of compounds of   formula    emi56.2       wherein rú is as defined in claim 1,   rê    represents a carboxyl esterifying group, r5 represents a   halogen    atom and r6b represents a leaving group or a hydroxyl   group which comprises reacting a compound of formula emi57.1       (wherein rú is as defined in    claim 1, rê represents    a carboxyl esterifying group, r6b is as defined above and n and r9 are as defined in claim 9, witn the proviso that when n is 1, r represents a methyl group) with an electrophilic halogenating agent.   12. compounds of the formula (v), emi57.2       wherein rê represents a carboxyl esterifying group and r11 represents a grouping of formula -nhr4 or rc wherein r4 is as defined in claim 1 and rc is a protected amino group.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
