<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0016486
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19801001
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
E04B-1/344 E04B-7/02 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
roof structure for a building.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
stamicarbonnl<sep>stamicarbon b.v.  <sep>stamicarbon b.v.mijnweg 1nl-6167 ac geleennl<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
van den berg marinus hubertusnl<sep>van den berg, marinus hubertus nicolaas<sep>van den berg, marinus hubertus nicolaasankersweg 2nl-6121 as bornnl<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a series of segments consisting of an elongated "u"-section ceiling element, and two "u"-section, elongated roof elements, form a combined sloping roof and ceiling unit.  the roof elements are attached close to the ends of the upstanding flanges of the ceiling elements, and are of near enough the same breadth as these.  when assembled the roof elements are clamped by the ridge beam.  pref.  both elements are open upwards.  where the flanges of the "u"-form roof sections contact those of an adjacent section, they are held by a clamping profile.  arrangement provides prefabricated roof-ceiling elements which can be quickly assembled irrespective of the dimensions of the infra-structure, so as to form a stable whole. 
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
combined roof-ceiling the invention relates to a combined sloping roof-ceiling, built up of pre-fabricated elements. from the netherlands patent application no. 7314092 there is known a roof-ceiling system which is also built up of pre-fabricated elements. the drawback of this system is that the dimensions of that ceiling and therefore also of the roof are entirely determined by the dimensions of the substructure, while, moreover, mounting of the ceiling, which is placed between the side-walls of the dwelling, requires correct spacing of the side-walls. although the whole is built up of prefabricated elements, mounting is laborious owing to the large dimensions, takes much time, and, in addition, requires trained craftsmen. the purpose of the invention is to provide a roof-ceiling combination built up of prefabricated roof-ceiling segments placed side by side and coupled to each other, which can be mounted independently of the dimensions of the substructure in a very short time, and which form a very stable whole. the dimensions of the elements are less large, which makes transport and mounting easier and, moreover, permits of unlimited expansion of the dwelling in two directions. mounting is very simple, moreover, and no additional roofing like tiles or slates etc. is needed. according to the invention, this is achieved due to the combined roof-ceiling being built up of roof-ceiling segments coupled to each other side by side, which segments consist of an oblong section, as ceiling element, of a substantially l- or u-shaped profile, and two oblong roof elements of practically the same width as the ceiling element, also of a substantially l- or u-shaped profile as roof elements, which near the two ends are attached to the flange or to both flanges of the ceiling element and which roof elements are rigidly coupled to each other at the ridge when mounted. by the term oblong is meant that, for instance, the ratio of the length to the width is 4 : 1 to 8 : 1. by the flange of the l-shaped element is understood the short leg of the l-shape. preferably, flange or flanges of the ceiling elements are turned upward. covering of the flanges of the roof elements, which are placed against each other, is preferably done by means of a cover profile, placed over the edges to prevent penetration of rain water. for the same purpose, the adjacent edges of the roof elements of several elements, when mounted, are preferably covered at the ridge by a ridge profile. in the system according to the invention, the overhang of the roof elements, and thereby also the roof pitch, can be easily varied. the oeiling and roof elements may have been made of a variety of materials, such as steel, aluminium, plastic, or glassfibrereinforced plastic and in particular fibre-reinforced cement, in which preferably has also been taken up a resin dispersion of a polymer which contains acid radicals and has an average particle size between 0,05 and 5 microns, the setting mass having a water-cement ratio between 0.2 and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
    c l a i m s      1. combined, sloping roof-ceiling, characterized in that it is built  up of adjacent roof-ceiling segments coupled to each other,   which     segments, consist of an oblong section as ceiling element, of a  substantially l- or u-shaped profile, and two oblong roof sections  of practically the same width as the ceiling element, also of a  substantially l- or u-shaped profile, which near the two ends are  attached to the flange or to both flanges of the ceiling element  and which roof elements are rigidly coupled to each other when  mounted.   2. combined roof-ceiling according to claim   l,    characterized in that  the flange or the flanges of the ceiling elements are turned  upward.   3. combined roof-ceiling according to claims 1 and 2, characterized  in that the abutting flanges of the u-shaped roof elements are  covered by a clamping profile passed over these flanges.   4. combined roof-ceiling according to claims 1 and 2, characterized in  that the edges of several roof elements which abut against each  other at the ridge of the roof when mounted are covered by a ridge  profile.   5. combined roof-ceiling according to the-claims 1-4, characterized  in that the u-shaped ceiling and roof elements are made of fibre  reinforced cement.   6. combined roof-ceiling according to the claims 1-5, characterized  in that the ceiling and roof elements are made of glass-fibre  reinforced cement in which also has been taken up a resin dispersion  of a polymer which contains acid radicals and has an average  particle size between 0.05 and 0.5 microns, the setting mass having  a water-cement ratio between 0.2 and 0.5, while the resin-cement  ratio is between 0.02 and 0.4.   7. combined roof-ceiling according to the claims 1-6, characterized  in that the width of the roof and ceiling elements varies from  15-240 cm, and the height of the flanges from 5 to 60 cm.   8. combined roof-ceiling according to the claims 1-7, characterized in  that the bodies of the u-shaped roof elements have a stepshaped  profile.     9. combined roof-ceiling according to the claims 1-8, characterized  in that the roof elements have a raised end edge at the ridge  side.   10. combined roof-ceiling according to the claims 1-9, characterized  in that ventilation air can freely flow in and out between the  ceiling and the roof when mounted.    11. roof-ceiling segment, characterized in that it is built up of  an oblong section as ceiling element of a substantially l- or  u-shaped profile, with a length which exceeds the relevant dimen  sion of the dwelling, and two sections of practically the same  width as the ceiling element, of a substantially l- or u-shaped  profile, as roof elements, which near the two ends are attached to  the flange or to both flanges of this ceiling section and which  roof elements are rigidly coupled to each other at the ridge when  mounted and so form a sloping roof segment.      12.    dwelling provided with a roof-ceiling according to the claims 1-11.   13. combined roof-ceiling as described and represented in the drawing.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
