<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0003185
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19790725
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
F24J-2/50 F03D-9/00 F03D-1/04 F03D-1/00 <main>F03D-1/04</main> F03G-6/00 F03G-7/02 F24J-2/00 F03G-6/04 F03D-1/02 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
harnessing natural energy.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
snook stephen robert <sep>snook, stephen robert <sep>snook, stephen robertp.o. box 846port hueneme, california 93041us<sep>snook, stephen robert<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
snook stephen robert<sep>snook, stephen robert<sep>snook, stephen robertp.o. box 846port hueneme, california 93041us<sep>snook, stephen robert<sep>snook, stephen robertp.o. box 846port hueneme, california 93041us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
harnessing natural energy by covering an earth's formation  such as a canyon (10) with a canopy (21), thus forming a  prevailing wind funnelling duct (20) which converges from a  lower opening (22) to a higher, smaller opening feeding the  resulting airstream to an electrical power generating station  (70) having wind turbine driven generators (77).  the canopy  has transparent, heat insulating panels (28) to provide and  contain solar heating of channeled air to create or enhance  the wind funnelling effect.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
harnessing natural energy the invention relates generally to harnessing natural energy in the form of wind and/or solar radiation to generate or augment natural wind. such energy may then be used to generate electricity or some other useful form of power. prior systems for generating electricity have included the use of fuels, nuclear energy, windmills and the like. prior systems, powered by fuel produce ecologically harmful wastes, and are economically inefficient. prior wind powered systems are inadequate for large scale energy production. prior uses of solar energy have included heating and electricity production utilizing photo-electric cells. to my knowledge, no way has hitherto been proposed for utilizing wind or the sun's radiation energy combined with wind on a large scale to generate power. this then, is the object of the invention as claimed, and the aim is met by apparatus used in combination with a formation of the earth's surface defining a channel comprising a canopy extending over said formation so that a longitudinally elongated duct is formed for channeling airflow from a relatively large opening at a lower portion of the formation to a relatively smaller opening at an upper portion of the formation. the effect of the canopy is to cause the natural airflow to accelerate, converting some of its internal energy into velocity and otherwise confining the airflow and concentrating it in a single, defined opening where it is readily harnessed and its energy extracted in the form of useful power, for example, using fewer and smaller turbines than would otherwise be required to obtain the same power output from natural wind forces alone. preferably, the canopy is substantially transparent to solar radiation passage through the canopy for impinging on, and heating, the formation's walls, thereby to impart heat to the air proximate the walls and located within said duct, the heated air, being of lesser density, being thereby caused to flow generally toward said upper opening and colder, more dense air entering the duct at the lower opening, said heated air being channeled by said duct in its flow to the smaller opening where it is emitted, said cooler air entering the duct at the lower opening then being heated by the formation's walls, to flow upward to the smaller opening, generating a continuous flow within said duct. the arrangement of the canopy may be such that the canopy is at least partially supported by the enclosed, heated air. since the apparatus of the invention is not intended to utilize consumable fuels, it is highly inexpensive in daily operation. also, polluting byproducts are eliminated. use of the invention allows a reduction in the number of fuel- consuming power production plants required in a given area as peak wind and solar inputs tend to coincide with peak periods of peak power consumption. some ways of carrying out the invention are described in detail below with reference to drawings which illustrate specific embodiments. in the drawings: fig. 1 is a perspective view of one apparatus in accordance with
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:    1. apparatus when used in combination with a formation of the   earthts    surface defining a channel comprising a canopy (21) extending over said formation (10) to form a longitudinally elongated duct (20) for channeling airflow from a relatively larger opening (22) at a lower portion of the formation to a relatively smaller opening (23) at an upper portion of the formation.    2. apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said canopy is substantially transparent to solar radiation passage through the canopy for impinging on and heating the formation's walls, thereby to impart heat to the air proximate the walls (11) and located within said duct, the heated air, being of lesser density, being thereby caused to flow generally toward said upper opening (23) and colder, more dense air entering the duct at the lower opening (22), said heated air being channeled by said duct in its flow to the smaller opening where it is emitted, said cooler air entering the duct at the lower opening then being heated by the formation's walls, to flow upward to the smaller opening, generating a continuous flow within said duct.    3. apparatus as claimed in claim 2 wherein said canopy includes structure (28) which thermally insulates and isolates heated air within said duct from surrounding air.    4. apparatus as claimed in claim 2 or 3 wherein the canopy includes multiple panels (28) comprised of substantially transparent sheets of material.    5. apparatus as claimed in claim 4 wherein  at least one of said panels includes two sheets of plastics material forming insulating space (61) therebetween.    6. apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 2 to 5 wherein said canopy includes a layer of material that allows solar radiation to pass therethrough, into the formation, and that reflects and retains within the formation radiation emitted and reflected by the walls thereof.    7. apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim wherein said canopy is substantially trapezoidal in shape, defining four edges, wherein the first and second opposite edges (24, 25) substantially corresponding to the non-parallel converging sides of a trapezoid, are each sufficiently elongated and adapted to conform to the topography of, and are attached to, the respective side walls (11) of the formation and form a substantially air tight seal (30) between the edge of the canopy and the respective formation walls, defining said duct, the third canopy edge (26) extends between said first and   secondcanow    edges, corresponding to the longer of the two substantially parallel edges of the trapezoid and, in combination with the earth formation, forms the larger, lower opening of the duct,  and the fourth canopy edge (27) extends between said first and second canopy edges, corresponding to the shorter of the two substantially parallel edges of the trapezoid, and in combination with the earth formation, forms the smaller, upper opening of the duct.    8. apparatus as claimed in claim 7 wherein said first and second edges of the canopy include structure (31) sufficient to form said substantially air tight seals between the canopy edges and the respective walls of the formation.      9. apparatus as claimed in claim 8 wherein said structure includes at least one tubular portion (32), at said edge of the canopy, at least partially formed of sheet material, and forming a chamber (34) to interiorly contain flowable material.    10. apparatus as claimed in claim 7, 8 or 9 wherein said third edge (26) of the canopy is substantially concave toward the duct.      ii.    apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 2 to 6 or any one of claims 7 to 10 when claim 7 is directly or indirectly dependent upon claim 2 wherein the canopy includes multiple inflatable substantially tubular portions (28a) serving at least partially to stiffen and retain said canopy in a suspended condition with respect to said formation.    12. apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 2 to 6 or any one of claims 7 to 11 when claim 7 is directly or indirectly dependent upon claim 2 including at least one pylon structure (60) serving to at least partially retain said canopy in a suspended condition with respect to said formation, the pylon including a rocker, and cables (60a) connected to the pylons.    13. apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 2 to 6 or any one of claims 7 to 12 when claim 7 is directly or indirectly dependent upon claim 2 including cleaning means (79) to wash down the upper surface of the canopy.    14. apparatus as claimed in claim 13 wherein said cleaning means includes at least one hose extending partially over said canopy to distribute water over portions of the surface of said canopy to  facilitate maintaining the transparency thereof.    15. apparatus comprising a canopy (21) extending over a formation of the earth's surface and defining therewith a duct capable of channeling an air flow from a relatively larger opening at a lower portion of the formation to a relatively smaller opening (23) at an upper portion of the formation, the canopy being substantially transparent to solar radiation passage through the canopy for impinging on and heating the formation's walls, thereby to impart heat to the air proximate the walls (11) and located within said duct, the heated air, being of lesser density, being thereby caused to flow generally toward said upper opening (23) and colder, more dense air entering the duct at the lower opening (22), said heated air being channeled by said duct in its flow to the smaller opening where it is emitted,  said cooler air entering the duct at the lower opening then being heated by the formation's walls, to flow upward to the smaller opening, generating a continuous flow within said duct, and said canopy is at least partially supported by the enclosed, heated air.    16. apparatus comprising a canopy (21) extending over a formation of the earth's surface and defining therewith a duct capable of channeling an air flow from a relatively larger opening at a lower portion of the formation to a relatively smaller opening   (23)    at an upper portion of the formation, the canopy being substantially transparent to solar radiation passage through the canopy for impinging on and heating the formation's walls, thereby to impart heat to the air proximate the walls (11) and located within said duct, the heated air, being of lesser density, being thereby caused to flow generally toward said upper opening (23) and colder, more dense air entering the duct at the  lower opening (22), said heated air being channeled by said duct in its flow to the smaller opening where it is emitted,  said cooler air entering the duct at the lower opening then being heated by the formation's walls, to flow upward to the smaller opening, generating a continuous flow within said duct, and power generating means (70) arranged to be driven by the force of the air flow that is channeled by the duct.    17. apparatus as claimed in claim 16 wherein said power generating means is located to receive the heated airflow emitted from said smaller, upper opening of the duct and to generate power in response thereto.    18. apparatus as claimed in claim 16 or 17 wherein said power generating means includes an electrical generator.     19. apparatus as claimed in claim 18 wherein said power generating means includes at least one air turbine and electrical generator combination, and said heated airflow within said duct is channeled by said duct generally toward the smaller, upper opening and thep is further channeled into said air turbine wherein energy associated with the heated air is imparted to multiple turbine rotor blades causing rotor rotation which in turn causes rotation of the armature of said generator, thus generating electricity.    20. apparatus as claimed in claim 19 including additional means including shutter structure (74) located to facilitate said further channeling of the heated air from the smaller, upper opening of the canopy into said air turbine.     21. apparatus as claimed in claim 20 wherein   said additional means includes scrolls   (75a)    to control and pre-rotate said flow of heated air into and between multiple air turbines defined by the first named means.    22. apparatus as claimed in claim 21 wherein said air turbines include variable stators and heated air channeled into each turbine has a controlled angle of incidence and a controlled flow serving to facilitate said transference of energy from the heated air to the turbine rotor.    23. apparatus as claimed in claim 19, 20, 21 or 22 including secondary turbine means located to control the flow of the heated air after it has passed through said air turbine to facilitate exhaust of said air into the environment, said secondary turbine means also extracting energy from the flow for power recovery.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
