<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0005007
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19791031
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
C25C-1/00 C25C-7/00 <main>C25C-1/00</main> 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
electrolytic process and apparatus for the recovery of metal values.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
recyclamation ltdgb<sep>recyclamation limited<sep>recyclamation limited1 summerhayes close kettlewell hillwoking surrey gu21 4jdgb<sep>recyclamation limited <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
cannell john frederick<sep>cannell, john frederick<sep>cannell, john frederick1 catherine cottages ton roadllangybi gwentgb<sep>cannell, john frederick<sep>cannell, john frederick1 catherine cottages ton roadllangybi gwentgb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
an electrolytic process and an electrolytic cell for  recovering metal values from low grade concentrates.  the  said concentrate is introduced into the cell containing an  aqueous electrolyte so that it is retained in proximity to an  anode or anodes (8) and kept out of contact from the or each  cathode (9).  the cell is energised so that electrolysis takes  place and acid is released at the anode(s) (8) which dissolves  the metal values which form cations which migrate to and  are discharged at the cathode(s) (9).  the impurities in the  concentrate form fine particles which are separated from the  concentrate by screening, e. g.  by means of a grid or grids  (10) separating the anodes (8) from the cathodes (9).  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
electrolytic process and apparatus for the recovery of metal values the present invention relates to a process and also to an electrolytic cell for electrolytically recovering metal values from a solid concentrate. the metal finishing industry produces liquid effluents containing nickel, cobalt, zinc, copper and iron cations which are conventionally precipitated as hydroxides or carbonates which are converted to low value filter cake which up to now has been discarded. this filter cake typically contains, in the case of nickel effluent, 7 to 12% of nickel by weight, the remainder consisting mainly of ferric hydroxide, water and foreign bodies. the metal treatment industry also produce other solid wastes such as cobalt and nickel-containing sludges from the machining and grinding of castings and the drawing of wire. it is theoretically possible to recover the metal values from these filter cakes or sludges by dissolving in an appropriate acid and then subjecting the resultant concentrated metal-containing solution to electrolysis, as is currently practised in electro-winning. however, as the electrolysis progresses the concentration of cations falls and the acidity of the solution rises so'that the efficiency of the process decreases until after a relatively short time metal deposition stops and although electrolysis continues, only oxygen and hydrogen are produced. although it is possible to overcome these problems by the removal of the highly acid electrolyte from the cell, dissolving therein further metalcontaining residues, evaporating off excess water, and removing insoluble impurities by filtration, such a process is costly and complicated in that it involves bulky and expensive chemical plant (e.g. reaction vessels, filters, stirrers and evaporators), thus rendering the process uneconomic. we have now developed a process and an electrolytic cell which enable metals such as nickel to be recovered from, for example, hydroxidecontaining wastes without recourse to auch bulky and expensive plant. according to one aspect of this invention we provide a process for electrolytically recovering metal values from a solid concentrate, characterised in that the concentrate is introduced into an electrolytic cell containing an aqueous electrolyte so that the concentrate is retained in proximity to the or each anode and kept out of contact with the or each cathode, and energising the cell so that electrolysis takes place and acid is released at the or each anode, which acid dissolves the said metal values to form cations which are discharged at the or each cathode, and insoluble impurities in the concentrate are released at the or each anode as fine particles which are separated by screening from the unreacted concentrate and accumulate in the bottom of the cell. the concentrate can be in any form (e.g. course particulate, lump, aggregate, paste or sludge), provided that it can be separated from the insoluble impurities by screening. if the concentrate is not already in a suitable form it can be converted to pellets or briquettes before being subjected to the process. the metal to be recovered must be a metal which wiil electroplate from solution and must be such that plating conditions in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims   i. a process for electrolytically recovering metal values from a solid concentrate, characterised in that the concentrate is introduced into an electrolytic cell (i) containing an aqueous electrolyte so that the concentrate is retained in proximity to the or each anode (8) and kept out of contact with the or each cathode (9), and energising the cell so that electrolysis takes place and acid is released at the or each anode (8), which acid dissolves the said metal values to form cations which are discharged at the or each cathode (9), and insoluble impurities in the concentrate are released at the or each anode (8) as fine particles which are separated by screening from the unreacted   coucentrate    and accumulate in the bottom (3) of the cell.   2. a process according. to claim i, -characterised in-that -the process   js---    continuous, further concentrate being periodically or continuously added to the cell in the vicinity of the or each anode, the solid impurities are periodically or continuously removed from the cell bottom, and the water produced in the electrolytic reaction is removed by evaporation.   3. a process according to claim i or claim 2, characterised in that the concentrate in the cell is periodically or continuously agitated.   4. a process according to claim 3, characterised in that the agitation is effected by introduction into the cell of air under pressure.     5. an electrolytic cell for recovering metal values from a solid concentrate so that the metal values are deposited on at least one cathode (9) and the insoluble impurities in the concentrate form insoluble fine particles, characterised in that the cell incorporates at least one grid (10) having apertures too small to allow passage of the unreacted concentrate, for isolating the concentrate from the or each cathode (9), but large enough to permit passage of the impurities so that they may accumulate in the bottom (3) of the cell.   6. an electrolytic cell according to claim 5, characterised in that the or each grid forms an anode and is of a conductive material resistant to erosion under the conditions prevailing during electrolysis.   7. an electrolytic cell according to claim 5, characterised in that the or each grid (10) is located between at least one anode (8) and at least one cathode   (9).      8. an electrolytic cell according to any of claims 5 to 7 characterised in that it tapers towards the cell bottom (3).   9. an electrolytic cell according to any of claims 5 to 8 characterised in that it incorporates means (13) for injecting pressurised air into the cell in the vicinity of the anode or anodes(8) for agitating the concentrate.   10. an electrolytic cell according to   aaim    5, characterised in that it includes an elongated cell body (i) which tapers towards the bottom (3) and is triangular in cross-section, a central row of vertical cathodes (9) within the body (1) and  parallel to the longitudinal axis thereof, two rows of vertical anodes (8) within the body (i)   parallel    to the r.ow of cathodes1 and disposed in either side thereof, each row of cathodes (9) being separated from the rows of anodes (8) by a vertical grid (10) extending downwards from the top of the cell to meet the converging lateral walls (2) of the cell body near the cell bottom (3),   which grids (10) divide the cell into a central cathode compartment (12) and two lateral anode compartments   (ii),    inlets (13) being provided in the lateral walls (2) of the cell body (i) for introducing pressurised air into the anode compartments   (i i).     
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
