<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0012454
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800625
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<main>B62M-9/12</main> B62M-9/127 B62M-9/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
a variable-speed bicycle and rear derailleur.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
maeda indjp   <sep>maeda ind<sep>maeda industries, ltd.no. 1-16, 2-cho, minami-koyo-chosakai osakajp<sep>maeda ind  <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
ozaki nobuo<sep>ozaki, nobuo<sep>ozaki, nobuono. 325, higashi 3-chome hamadera-suwanomori-chosakai, osakajp<sep>ozaki, nobuo<sep>ozaki, nobuono. 325, higashi 3-chome hamadera-suwanomori-chosakai, osakajp<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a variable-speed bicycle comprises a multi-stage free­ wheel 6 with two or three sprockets mounted on a rear  wheel hub 9, a rear derailleur 10 adapted to cooperate with  the freewheel for switching over a chain 8 from one sprocket  onto another, and an action converter 44 for converting a  tension force of direction p into a thrust force of direc­ tion s, the derailleur comprising a horizontal support shaft  11 mounted to a bracket 13, a tensioner 35 mounted on the  shaft, and a helical spring 29 surrounding the shaft and  interposed between the tensioner and the bracket, the ten­ sioner being axially siidable on the shaft as well as rotatable  about the shaft under functions of the spring, the action  converter comprising a push arm 50 disposed operatively  in contact with the tensioner for imparting the thrust force  thereto, all of the above constituent elements being housed  within a gear case 1.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
a variable-speed bicycle description this invention relates to a variable-speed bicycle equipped with a multi-stage freewheel assembly and a cooperating rear derailleur characterized in that said assmebly and the derailleur are both housed within a gear case. as is well known, a usual multi-stage freewheel assembly having four or more sprocket wheels is too large in dimension to be housed within a gear case of usual size. while, every type of conventional rear derailleur is also too large in dimension to be housed in a gear case of usual size because of difficulty in designing its chain shifting mechanism so compact and thin without decline of desired function. it is, of course, possible to provide such a large gear case as specially designed for housing both of the conventional multi-stage freewheel assembly and rear derailleur of large dimensions. however, a bicycle equipped with that large gear case will surely lose its good appearance and will not sell well. therefore, it has been customary that a bicycle equipped with a rear derailleur is never provided with a full-cover type gear case, ignoring needs therefor arising, for example, from such viewpoints as prevention of exposure to rain and dust, and danger of catching a cycliststs clothing. the applicant is not aware of any prior art proposing a bicycle having a rear derailleur housed within a gear case. it is, therefore, a primary object of the present invention to provide a bicycle having a two or three-stage freewheel assembly and a rear derailleur both housed within a gear case. another object of the invention is to provide a specific construction of a rear derailleur capable of being housed within a gear case. a further object of the invention is to provide a novel rear derailleur which is relatively simple in construction, compact in size, inexpensive to manufacture and efficient in use. other objects, features and advantages of the invention will become apparent from the detailed description given hereinafter in connection with the accompanying drawings. in the drawings: figure 1 is a side elevation of a bicycle embodying the present invention; figure 2 is an enlarged side elevation showing the internal arrangements disposed within a gear case; figure 3 is a plan view of figure 2, showing the derailleur in top gear position; figure 4 is a similar view to figure 3, showing the derailleur in low gear position; figure 5 is an exploded perspective view showing important elements of the invention; figure 6 is an enlarged perspective view of a helical spring to be incorporated with the derailleur; figures 7 and 8 are cross sections of preferable wire materials of the helical spring as shown in figure 6; figure 9 is a similar view to figure 3, showing another embodiment of the present invention; figure 10 is a side elevation showing a further embodiment of the invention; figure 11 is a top plan view of figure 10; and figure 12 is a rear side elevation of figure 10. referring now to the drawings,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims   1. a variable-speed bicycle comprising a multi-stage  freewheel assembly with a plurality of sprockets of  different diameter mounted on a rear wheel hub (9), and  a rear derailleur provided with a tensioner (35), a  pulley support frame (36) and a pair of pulleys (37, 38)  and adapted to cooperate with said freewheel assembly  for switching over a drive chain (8) from one sprocket  to another when the tensioner (35) is shifted by opera  tion from a remote location by means of a speed change  lever (67) through a control cable (64), character  ized in that the freewheel assembly (6 or 6') and  the rear derailleur (10 or   10a    or   10b)    are both housed  within a gear case (1 or 1'), said freewheel aseembly  being a two or three-stage freewheel assembly (6 or 6')  having two or three sprockets (7a-7c or 7a-7b-7c) of  different diameter,  said derailleur comprising a hori  zontal support shaft   (11    or 11') disposed within said  gear case in parallel with a hub spindle (9') and at  least one helical spring (29 or 29') surrounding said  shaft and engaged at one end with the tensioner (35 or  35') mounted on said shaft, the tensioner being axially  slidable on said shaft as well as rotatable about said  shaft under functions of said helical spring; the bicycle  further comprising an action converter (44 or 44') for convert  ing a tension force of one direction p applied by said  control cable (64) into a thrust force of a transverse  direction s to said direction p of the tension force,  said action converter having at least one push arm (50  or 50') disposed operatively in contact with said  tensioner.   2. the bicycle according to claim 1, wherein the  horizontal support shaft (11) is supported by a mounting  bracket (13) which is mounted to a rear end plate (5).     3. the bicycle according to claim 1, wherein the  horizontal support shaft (11) is supported by a mount  ing bracket (13') which is directly mounted to a rear  wheel hub spindle (9').   4. the bicycle according to claim 1, wherein the  action converter (44) has at least one push arm (50)  and at least one connecting arm (52) linked to a hinge  member (56) to which a control cable (64) is connected.   5. the bicycle according to claim 1, wherein the  action converter (44') has at least one push arm (50')  and at least one connecting arm (52') to which the  control cable (64) is connected.   6. the bicycle according to claims 2 or 3, wherein  said action converter (44 or 44') is operatively sup  ported by said mounting bracket (13 or 13').   7. the bicycle according to claim 1, wherein the  helical spring (29 or 29') is a compression spring whose  movable end (32) is engaged with the tensioner (35 or  35') so as to urge said tensioner in the clockwise  direction when viewed from one side of the bicycle where  the gear case (1 or 1') is located.   8. the bicycle according to claim 1, wherein said  freewheel assembly (6) is arranged so that the chain (8)  is engaged with the smaller sprocket (7a) when said  helical spring (29) is fully compressed.   9. the bicycle according to claim 1, wherein said  freewheel assembly (6') is arranged so that the chain  (8) is engaged with the largest sprocket (7c) when the  helical spring (29') is fully compressed.     10. a rear derailleur to be incorporated with said  bicycle as defined in claim 1, which comprises a  horizontal support shaft (11 ro 11') supported by a  mounting bracket (13 or 13') and disposed within a gear  case (1 or 1') so as to extend in parallel with a rear  wheel hub spindle (9'), a tensioner (35 or 35') mounted  on said support shaft, at least one helical spring (29  or 29') surrounding said support shaft and interposed  between said tensioner and said bracket, and an action  converter (44 or 44') supported by said bracket for  converting a tension force of one direction p applied  by a control cable (64) into a thrust force of a  transverse direction s thereto, said tensioner being  axially slidable on said support shaft as well as  rotatable about the support shaft,   said action convert  er having at least one push arm (50 or 50') disposed  operatively in contact with said tensioner.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
