<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0014327
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800820
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
H04N-17/06 G01R-33/12 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
electronic video tape evaluator
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
compact video systemsus<sep>compact video systems, inc.<sep>compact video systems, inc.2813 west alameda avenueburbank, california 91505us  <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
hansen stephan charlesus<sep>hansen, stephan charles<sep>hansen, stephan charles29406 hillrise driveagoura, california 91301us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
video recording tape is evaluated by first recording a color bar test pattern and then playing back the recorded information to provide an r-f signal from the tape.  a drop-out detector (12) generates a change in output level during the time the r-f signal drops below a predetermined level.  the output of the drop-out detector is applied to a weighting and averaging circuit (14) that averages a plurality of pulses from the dropout detector over a time period that is long compared to the normal duration of signal drop-outs. 
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
electronic video tape evaluator field of the invention this invention relates to an electronic video tape evaluator, and more particularly, is concerned with a method and apparatus for evaluating and grading video tape stock. background of the invention the use of magnetic tape to record and playback color video signals is well known. in many instances recording live directly on video tape has replaced using photographic film, since the video information recorded on magnetic tape can be converted directly into video signals for transmission. in some instances, large sums of money may be invested in the production of material which is recorded on magnetic tape. it is essential that the magnetic tape be of acceptable quality before it is used to record; otherwise the investment in the recording may be lost. various types of gross flaws may be encountered in magnetic tape which can seriously impair or completely destroy the usefulness of the tape. these flaws must be detected before large sums are invested in producing a finished recording. flaws in the tape take a variety of forms, some of which have negligible effect on the video signal reproduced from the recorded tape. manufacturers of magnetic tape screen the tape to determine if the tape meets industry standards for color video record ing. one type of evaluation is to record a color bar test pattern on video tape and on playback detect the presence of dropouts, that is, any loss of rf signal during playback. each dropout is counted and a dropout rate is established by averaging the number of dropouts over some period of time, such as over a previous one minute of playout time. a continuous last one-minute average dropout count", for example, is recorded continuously to determine if the average dropout rate exceeds a predetermined level. present manufacturing standards for 2" video tape specify that the dropout rate not exceed ten dropouts per minute on the average and not exceed twenty-five dropouts per minute in the highest one-minute average. such evaluator schemes, however, fail to flag certain types of gross flaws which render the magnetic tape unacceptable for high quality video recording. one problem is that a system which merely counts the number of dropouts to determine the average rate must mask dropouts shorter than some small arbitrary duration to avoid an intractably high dropout count. this duration has been specified to be 5 > seconds by smpte standard rp 47-1972. unfortunately, by limiting the dropout detecting and counting to dropouts of duration longer than 5 microseconds, scratches in the tape, and similar types of defects may go undetected. however, tape scratches present a problem in recording and playback even though they are of such short duration. scratches which run lengthwise of the tape cause dropouts in successive video signal tracks laid down by the scanning heads during the recording process. the dropouts caused by the scratches cannnot be covered up by the dropout compensator circuits in the video tape playback equipment. further, because a single scratch
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 electronic video tape evaluator   what is   clai#1ed      is:       1.    apparatus for detecting flaws on color video magnetic recording tape on which a color bar test pattern has been magnetically recorded, comprising: playback means for reproducing an r-f output signal from the magnetic tape, dropout detector means responsive to the r-f signal for generating a pulse when the r-f output signal drops below a predetermined level during   playback,;the    duration of the pulse corresponding to the time the output signal is below a predetermined level, an integrating circuit connected to the output of the dropout detector for integrating the pulses, and means indicating changes in the output of the integrating circuit.    2. apparatus of claim i wherein said   means    indicating changes in the output of the   integrating# circuit    includes a recording oscillograph having a predetermined rate of response that   i5    slow compared to the time duration of said pulses from the dropout detector means.    3. apparatus of claim 1 wherein the integrating circuit comprises an impulse weighting and averaging filter for generating an output signal that averages a plurality of input pulses over a time period   that- is- long    compared to the duration of the individual pulses.    4. apparatus-of claim 3 wherein the impulse weighting and averaging filter produces an output signal whose-peak amplitude is directly related to the time duration of said pulses.      5. apparatus of claim 1 wherein the integrating circuit includes first and second integrating stages in series.    6. apparatus of claim 5 wherein the first integration stage includes an integrating capacitor, a series resistor for charging said capacitor in response to each of said electrical pulses to a voltage level proportional to the duration of each pulse, and a shunt resistor for discharging the capacitor at a rate that is substantially longer than the charging rate, and the second integration stage includes an integrating capacitor, a series resistor for charging the integrating capacitor, and a shunt resistor for discharging the capacitor.    7. apparatus of claim 6 wherein the capacitor and series- resistor of the second integrator have a substantially longer time constant than the capacitor and series resistor of the first integrator.    8. apparatus of claim 7 wherein the capacitor and shunt resistor of the two integrators have substantially the same time constant.      9#. a circuit for weighting and averaging a plurality of electrical pulses occurring at random time #intervals and of varying pulse duration, comprising:  a first integration stage coupled to a source of said electrical pulses including an integrating capacitor, a series resistor for charging said capacitor in response to each of said electrical pulses to a voltage level proportional to the duration of each pulse, and a shunt resistor for discharging the capacitor at a rate that is substantially longer than the charging rate; and  a second integration stage coupled to the output of the first integrator stage including an integrating capacitor, a series resistor for charging the integrating capacitor, and a shunt resistor for discharging the capacitor.    10. apparatus of claim 9 wherein the capacitor# and series resistor of the second integrator have asubstantially longer time constant than the capacitor and series resistor of the first integrator.      11. apparatus    of claim 10 wherein the capacitor and shunt resistor of the two integrators have substantially the same time constant.      12. apparatus for locating flaws in magnetic tape on which a color bar test pattern signal has been recorded, comprising means including at least one magnetic head which scans the tape periodically at a fixed rate for reading back the test pattern signal recording on the tape, means generating a pulse when the signal played back drops below a predetermined level, the duration of the pulse being determined by the time the signal remains below a predetermined level; at least one delay circuit coupled to the output of the means generating a pulse for delaying the pulse by a time interval corresponding to a scan period of the magnetic head, a logical and gate connected to the output of the means generating a pulse and the delay circuit, and integration means coupled to the output of the logical and gate for integrating the output of the logical and gate.     13. apparatus of claim 14 further including a second delay circuit having the same delay time as the first delay circuit, the output of the second delay circuit being connected to an input to the logical and gate.    14. a method of profiling magnetic tape to determine the quality of the tape, comprising the steps of:  recording an r-f signal over a portion of the tape length, playing back the r-f signal from the tape, generating a binary signal that switches to a first level when the r-f signal played back from the tape drops below a first level of signal strength and switches to a second level when the r-f signal exceeds a second level of signal strength, and weighting and averaging said binary signals over a time interval that is long compared to the duration of the binary signal at said first level.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
