<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0005078
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19791031
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
H02K-29/08 H02K-29/06 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
stepper motors.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
marconi co ltdgb<sep>the marconi company limited <sep>the marconi company limitedmarconi house new streetchelmsford essex cm1 1pl gb  <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
dalley keith richardgb<sep>stewart douglas edwardgb<sep>dalley, keith richard<sep>stewart, douglas edward<sep>dalley, keith richard11 marshall close covefarnborough, hampshiregb<sep>stewart, douglas edward2 wharf roadfrimley green, surreygb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a stepper motor having a permanent magnet rotor (5)  and a number of pole windings (1-4) which can be energised  successively.  the rotor angular position is sensed by hall  effect devices or reed switches and each pole winding is  energised in dependence upon the position of the rotor and,  in particular, before the preceding pole winding position is  reached by the rotor.  where reed switches are used as the  position sensor they can also perform the pole switching  function.  speed control is obtained by control of the pole  energising current and is thus divorced from any control of  the frequency of the pole energisation.  very high speeds at  very low powers can be attained.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
specification stepper motors this invention relates to stepper motors and particularly to stepper motors which are operable on a continuous basis to produce a large number of rotational steps. the stepper motor is essentially a position control device but the ability to rotate a load rapidly through large angles requiring many incremental steps is a common requirement. one application of such motors is in instrumentation control in space vehicles and for this purpose durability, reliability and low power consumption are at a premium. brush fed rotors are thus excluded and permanent magnet stepper motors have proved to be among the most satisfactory. a permanent magnet stepper motor can be operated on a continuous basis in either of two modes : first, what may be called a frequency-driven, or synchronous mode, and secondly a switched mode. in the first case the stator poles are energised by a sinusoidal supply which, with a suitable phase shift from pole to pole will cause the rotor to rotate in synchronism. in the second case a d.c. source is connected to the stator pole windings cyclically so that at each switching of the d.c. source the rotor attempts to settle in the new stable position, to which the rotor is commanded or driven. switching of the stator poles may be effected by a pulse train of square wave form. in both cases the speed of rotation may be increased by increasing the energising freqaency, sinusoidal or pulse. there comes a time, however, when the operation becomes unstable and the rotation drops out of synchronisation with the energisation. even at speeds within the controlled range, operation tends to become unreliable as the speed increases. an object of the present invention is to provide a stopper motor which operates with certainty throughout its range and permits greater speeds to be obtained than hitherto, without loss of synchronism. a further object of the present invetion is to provide cans for adapting a completely standard stepper motor for reliable high speed operation. according to the present invention, a stepper rotor having a permanent magnet rotor and a stator having a plurality pole windings, includes means for energising the pole windings cyclically to establish a succession of angular command positions for the rotor, said means for energising the pole windings being operative in dependence upon the angular position of the rotor so that, in operation, before the rotor has achieved any particular command position, the pole winding enerisation is switched to establish the command position next following said particular command position. ae means for energising the pole windings preferably comprises means for sensing the rotor angular position and means for connecting the pole windings to a d.c. source selectively, the latter means being operative in dependence upo the position sensing means. the means for sensing the rotor angular position may comprise a magnetic angular reference element rotatable with said rotor, and field sensing elements fixed in relation to the motor stator and disposed around. the reference element. the reference element
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
    cl: ims      1.   h    stepper motor having a permanent magnet rotor (5) and a stator having a plurality of pole windings   4),    and including means (6) for energising the pole windings   (l wl )    cyclically to establish a succession of angular command positions for the rotor, characterised in that said means for energising the pole windings (1-4) is operative in dependence upon the angular position of the rotor (5) so that, in operation, before the rotor (5) has achieved any particular command position, the pole winding energisation is switched to establish the command position next following said, particular command position.   2. a stepper motor according to claim 1, characterised in that said means for energising the pole windings (1-4) comprises means for sensing the rotor angular position and means (6, 30) for connecting the pole windings (1-4) to a   d.c.    source selectively, the latter   means (6,    30) being operative in dependence upon the position sensing means.   3. a stepper motor according to claim 2, characterised in that said means for sensing the rotor angular position comprises a magnetic angular reference element (9, 33) rotatable with said rotor (5) and field sensing elements (12, 30) fixed in relation to the motor stator and disposed around the reference element (9,   33).      4. a stepper motor according to claim 3, characterised in that said reference element comprises a permanent magnet (9) and said field sensing elements comprise hall effect sensors (12, 13).   5. a stepper motor according to claim 4, characterised in that there are an even number of said command positions at equal angular spacings, and wherein both poles of the permanent magnet reference element (9) are detectable and distinguishable by each hall effect sensor (12, 13), the number of which sensors is half the number of command positions.        6.    a steppes   rotor    according to claim 3, characterised in that said field sensing elements comprise for each of said command positions, a reed switch 30.      a      a    stepper motor according to claim 6, characterised in that said field sensing elements (30) further comprise for each of said command positions, a permanent magnet (31) spaced from the associated reed switch (30) but not sufficiently to prevent operation thereof, and in that said magnetic reference element comprises a circular   maonetic shunt      (33)    which extends between each reed switch (30) and its associated magnet (31) to prevent operation of the reed switch (30), the magnetic shunt (33) having a gap at one portion of its circumference such as to permit operation of each reed switch (30) as the gap passes by it on rotation of the magnetic shunt (33).   8. a stepper motor according to claim 6 or claim 7 wherein said reed switches (30) constitute both means for sensing the rotor angular position and means for connecting the pole windings (1-4).    9. a stepper motor according to any preceding claim, characterised by means for deriving a signal proportional to the average magnitude of the voltage induced in at least one of the unenergised pole windings (1-4) during operation of the motor, said signal indicating the motor speed.   10.   h    stepper motor comprises a permanent magnet rotor (5) a stator having a plurality of pole windings (1-4), means (6) for energising said pole windings cyclically to establish a succession of angular command position for the rotor, said means for energising said pole   wlndings    being operative in dependence upon the angular position of the rotor and the motor speed being determined by the level but not the frequency of the energisation of said pole windings.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
