<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0014403
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800820
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
A61M-5/14 A61M-5/165 <main>A61M-5/16</main> A61M-5/36 A61J-1/14 B01D-19/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
vented filter spigot for intravenous liquid administration apparatus.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
pall corp us<sep>pall corporation  <sep>pall corporation30 sea cliff avenueglen cove, new york 11542us<sep>pall corporation  <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
rosenberg david j<sep>rosenberg, david j.<sep>rosenberg, david j.12 francis courtglen cove, new yorkus<sep>rosenberg, david j.<sep>rosenberg, david j.12 francis courtglen cove, new yorkus<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a vented filter spigot for gravity feed intravenous liquid  adminstration is provided having a filter spigot housing (1); a  filter chamber (13) in the housing; an inlet (17) and an outlet  (22) in the housing, the housing being arranged to have the  inlet (17) oriented up and the outlet (22) oriented down when  installed for liquid feed from a liquid supply for intravenous  administration (21); the inlet being shaped for attachment to a  supply of liquid in a container for intravenous administration,  and the outlet being shaped for attachment to an intravenous  liquid administration apparatus (25); a liquid-permeable filter  (10) that is gas-impermeable when wet disposed in the filter  chamber in a manner so as to extend generally vertically  when the inlet is oriented up, and across the line of fluid flow  through the chamber from the inlet to the outlet so that all  through flow must pass through the filter; and dividing the  chamber into two generally vertically-extending portions, one  upstream (15) and one downstream (16) of the filter; a vent  (26) in an uppermost portion of the housing when the inlet is  oriented up in flow communication with the upstream portion  of the filter chamber; and a liquid-impermeable gas  permeable filter (11) disposed across the line of flow through  the vent, so that all vent flow must pass through the filter, the  filter restricting such flow to gas to which it is permeable; first  and second passages (31, 30) in the housing putting the inlet  into fluid flow communication with the filter chamber, the first  passage (31) opening into an upper part of the upstream  portion of the filter chamber, and the second passage (30)  being longer than the first and opening into a lower part of the  upstream portion of the filter chamber; whereby outflow of  liquid via the filter chamber (13) through the outlet (22)  aspirates air via the vent, (26) liquid-impermeable gas-­ permeable filter (11) and first passage (31) into the container  holding the supply of liquid (21), and makes it possible to  maintain liquid flow from the container (21) via the second  passage (30) to the outlet (22).  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
vented filter spigot for intravenous liquid administration apparatus in many types of medical treatment, such as blood transfusions, intravenous feeding, and the like, it is necessary to introduce into a patient liquid from a liquid supply, sometimes ln rather large amounts. when this is done, it is quite important that absolutely no contaminant be permitted to pass into the patient with the liquid, because of the danger of injury or infection, or of an embolism, with possibly fatal consequences. before such an injection usually can be carried forward, therefore, it is necessary to clear the line from the supply to the patient of air, and exclude air from the system thereafter. this is not easy to do, however. there is the further problem, if the liquid supply is held in a rigid-wallcd container, with gravity feed, that air must be admitted into the container as liquid is removed, to prevent the building up of a vacuum in the container which slows and eventually halts liquid flow. this air must be freed of contamtnants before it can be allowed to enter the container, and so leakage of air into the system has to be prevented. accordingly, in gravity feed systems there is the constant danger that air can enter the system during administration, since the system can liardly be easily assembled and disassembled, and still be completely air-tight, and there is also the possibility of human error in such assembly. the danger increases if a large volume of fluid is to be injected. if the reservoir runs dry, there is also again a danger that air will be injected, especially when the liquid is being injected under pressure, using, for instance, a mechanical pump. 'intravenous liquid administration apparatus accordingly requires a gas vent and both a gas filter across this vent and a liquid filter to ensure that undesirable or foreign contaminants in gaseous or particulate form not be administered intravenously, with untoward consequences. in order to introduce air into the container, it is customary to provide a vented filter spigot with two fluid flow passages, having a gas filter across one vented passage through which air is drawn into the container via the spigot as liquid is withdrawn from the container via the other passage. liquid flow through this spigot passage is not filtered, however. a separate filter assembly has to be provided, if the liquid is to be filtered. many types of intravenous liquid filter assemblies have been provided, of which the system described in barr et al patent no. 3,557,786 patented january 26, 19'tri is exemplary. the filter is usually disposed in an intravenous liquid drip chamber attached to the supply of liquid to be administered, in such a manner that the filter is integral with the chamber housing, all flow through the chamber having to pass through the filter before it can be administered. such filter assemblies are intended to be disposed of after one use, and to meet the requirement of disposability, the device must be
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:    1. a vented filter spigot for gravity feed intravenous liquid  administration, comprising a filter spigot housing; a filter chamber  in the housing; an inlet and an outlet in the housing, the housing  being arranged to have the inlet oriented up and the outlet oriented  down when installed for liquid feed from a liquid supply for intra  venous administration; the inlet being shaped for attachment to a  supply of liquid in a rigid walled container for   intravaneous    administration, and the outlet being shaped for attachment to an intravenous  liquid administration apparatus;  a   liquid-permeable    filter that is  gas-impermeable when filled with liquid disposed in the filter chamber in a manner so as to extend generally vertically when the  inlet is oriented up, and   acs    ss the line of fluid flow through the chamber from the inlet to the outlet so that all through flow must pass   through    the filter; and dividing the chamber into two generally   vertically-extending    portions, one upstream and one downstream of the filter; a vent in an uppermost portion of the housing when the inlet is oriented up in flow communication with the upstream portion of the filter chamber;  and   #:      liquid-impermeable gas-permeable filter      disposed    across the line of flow through the vent, so that all vent flow   mur    pass through the filter, the filter restricting such flow to gas to   which    it is permeable; first and second passages in the housing putting the   valet    into fluid flow communication with the filter chamber, the first passage opening into an upper part of the upstream portion of the litter chamber, and the second passage being longer than the first  and opening into a lower part of the upstream portion of the filter chamber;  whereby outflow of liquid via the filter chamber through the outlet aspirates air via the vent, liquid-impermeable gas-permeable filter and first passage into the container holding the supply of liquid, and makes it possible to maintain liquid flow from the container via the second passage to the outlet.    2. a vented filter spigot according to claim 1, wherein each of the filters have an average pore size less than about 0. 3 micron.    3. a vented filter spigot according to claim 1, wherein the housing and associated parts are made of transparent plastic.    4. a vented filter spigot according to claim 3, wherein the housing and any other plastic parts are bonded or fused together in a one-piece construction.    5. a vented filter spigot according to claim 1, wherein the inlet comprises an inlet member having a spiked end for piercing a wall of an intravenous liquid supply vessel.     6. a vented filter spigot according to claim 1, wherein the gas-permeable filter is a microporous membrane.    7. a vented filter spigot according to claim 1, wherein the outlet comprises an outlet member having a socket.    8. a vented filter spigot according to claim 1, wherein the wall of the housing portion downstream of each filter is ribbed with upwardly and downwardly extending ribs to facilitate flow of liquid to the outlet and gas to the vent.      9. a vented filter spigot according to claim 1, wherein the inlet comprises an inlet member carrying the first and second passages to the filter chamber.    10. a vented filter spigot according to claim 1, wherein the housing is in two portions, one portion including the inlet member and first and second passages to the filter chamber, and the other each filter, the gas vent and the outlet.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
