<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0005040
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19791031
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<main>B65H-31/24</main> B65H-39/11 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
continuous paper sorting machine.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
holliday david hus<sep>ordibel incus<sep>holliday, david h.<sep>ordibel, inc.<sep>holliday, david h.15521-15th neseattle washington 98155us<sep>ordibel, inc.90 park avenuenew york n.y. 10016us<sep>holliday, david h.<sep>ordibel, inc.<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
clarkson anthony c <sep>greene ronald w<sep>holliday david h  <sep>clarkson, anthony c.<sep>greene, ronald w.<sep>holliday, david h.<sep>clarkson, anthony c.turk hill roadbrewster new york 10509us<sep>greene, ronald w.3116 south 133rd st.seattle washington 98168us<sep>holliday, david h.15521-15th n.e.seattle washington 98155us<sep>clarkson, anthony c.<sep>greene, ronald w. <sep>holliday, david h.<sep>clarkson, anthony c. turk hill road brewster new york 10509 us<sep>greene, ronald w.3116 south 133rd st.seattle washington 98168us<sep>holliday, david h.15521-15th n.e.seattle washington 98155us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
continuous paper sorter mechanism in which a receiver  section 14 is mounted for lateral movement relative to a  feeder mechanism 10 which has an in-feed conveyor 18  which takes paper from a copy making device 12 and feeds  the paper either to an intermediate downwardly inclined  conveyor 26 or onto an intermediate upwardly inclined  conveyor 24, depending on whether the feeder 10 is  distributing paper from the top or from the bottom.  sheets  from the intermediate conveyors 24 and 26 in turn are  transported to a generally vertically disposed, reversible  feeder conveyor.  the feeder conveyor is provided with a  plurality of two-way deflectors which intercept the sheets  and direct them off the conveyor moving either downwardly  or upwardly.  a deflector guide section is disposed between  the deflectors and the entrances of the bins in the receiver.  a  proof tray mechanism 20 is also provided over the in-feed  conveyer 18.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
continuous paper sorting machine" this invention relates to sheet distributing or sorting devices and more particularly to an apparatus which can continuously sort large numbers of multi-paged documents as copies of a particular page proceed from a reproducing device such as a printer or copy making machine. this application references copending european patent applications no. 79300625.5 , for "beeding mechanism for a continuour sorting machine", no. 79300626.3 , for"bin receiver mechanism for a continuous paper sorting machine"; and no. 79300623.0. , for "paper sheet deflecting system for sorter mechanisml all of which have been filed on even date with the instant application. prior art paper distributors, sorters and/or collators have encountered many problems. one is that the increases in material and labour costs have made it imperative that the capacity of the reproduction machine be utilized to its maximum. in order for the maximum production capability of a printing or copy making machine to be utalized, it is necessary that the sorter have the capacity to receive the printer or copy making machine output without undue loss of press or copy making machine time. large volume sorting machines have been introduced to the market place but they are not continuous. for instance, after a column of trays or bins has been filled, it it necessary to shirt that filled column away from the feeder and move an empty column into position to continue the sorting job, thus, there is lost a significant amount of press or copy machine production time between columns. additionally, tine is lost if the bilis iiave to be unloaded on line. the differences in the volute of jobs that sorters must iiaiidle suggest that sorters should be modular to the extent hat if a module does not have the capacity, additional modular receiver bin sections may be provided witllout any substantial loss of time or extra handling of the copied material. while smaller collators or sorters are mainly intended for the office market as a necessary adjunct to office copying machinery, larger sorters are more intended for the high production commercial market and for large in-plant reproduction centers, commercial houses and printing departments. these higher volume paper handling installations niay be turning out catalogs, maintenance manuals, instruction books, brochures, sales material und perhaps other ituintr such as reports, bid specifications and other large quantity multi-page publications. those skilled in the art will appreciate the savings in labor, time and money if the output of a printing or copying center can be sorted and handled at a rate which is matched to the press and duplicating macllinery production capability. agony the prior art references which may be considered with respect to tulle features of this invention are the following; united states patent nos. 3,420,517; 3,2?3,882; 3,356,362; 3,84s,867; 3,937,459; 3,938,801; 3,740,050; 3, 944,217; and 3,963,235. the devices covered by the above list of patents are considered to be non-anticipatory of the teacj#inys of this invention. a continuous paper sorting machine in which the receiver with the bins is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims    1. a   contilluous    paper sorter mechanism, comprising:  a) a receiver section having a support frame   including    a base section with caster   cans    attached to the   bottoiu    of said base for   movement    of said receiver along a track   asseiribly    and further including upstanding support frame means for supporting a predetermined equal number of   paper    receiving bin means in   side-by-side    columns in such   a way    that said columns are canted at a preselected angle in   tlle    direction of movement of sdid receiver and which   framu      means    has an entrance side and an unloading side and  <rti     id=24.13> which    sides are adapted to be generally parallel to a feed conveyor,  b) an elongated floor track assembly for supporting said receiver mechanism thereon, and including drive means for   illoving    said receiver in both directions along a predetermined path on said track   assembly,     c) a generally upright continuous feeder mechanism   including    (1) a main supporting frame including a base section and an upstanding tower section, (2) a first infeed   conveyor means    for receiving sheets of paper to be sorted   from    a paper   copy-making    device and having a receiving end and a   discllarye    end,  said first conveyor means including   directioiial    deflector   means    at its discharge end for selectively directing sheets of   paper    to a second or third   intermediate      conveyor      means,    (3) a second intermediate conveyor   means    for   receiving    paper   sleets    from said first conveyor   ifleans    for transporting   sheets    of paper to the upper   cnd    of a.   feeder    conveyor   means,    (4) a third intermediate     conveyor      uied!)5    tur   transporting    sheets of paper to the   lower   elld    of a   feeder      conveyor    means, (5) generally vertically disposed   fourth    feeder conveyor means in predetermined spaced relation to the entrance side of said receiver section   alld      which    is reversible so as to selectively receive paper sheets from said second and third conveyor means, said fourth feeder conveyor also including a plurality of bin deflector means for selectively directing paper sheets into said bin means as the said paper sheets proceed   along      said      fourth    conveyor means either from the top or   froin      tiie    bottom,  and  d)   muaiis    for moving all said conveyor means, means for selectively reversing said fourth feeder conveyor means, and means for selectively actuating all said deflector means.    2. the continuous sorter   mechanism    according to   claim    1 and in   which    a plurality of paper deflector guide   jeans    are   provided    generally between said bin deflector means and the entrances to said bin means for assisting in directing sheets of paper to said bin means.    3. the continuous sorter   mechanism    according to   claim    2 and   ill      which    said plurality of paper guide means are mounted   on    a secondary frame pivotally attached to said  tower section so that said   paper    guide means may be swung away from said #did fourth conveyor   inuans    and said bin   dflector    means.      4.   '1'lle      cojltinuous    sorter mechanism according to claim   i    and in   which    said intermediate second and third conveyor means angle upwardly to the upper end and downwardly to the lower end respectively of said fourth feeder conveyor means.    5. the continuous sorter mechanism according to   claim    1 and in which a drive and clutching means are located in the base section of said main supporting frame for effecting rapid reversal of said fourth feeder conveyor means.    6. the continuous sorter mechanism according to claim 1 and in which a proof or paper receiving tray is located above said first infeed conveyor for selectively receiving sheets of paper from said first infeed conveyor means, and further   including    a proof deflector means near the receiving end   thereof    for selectively   guiding    sheets of paper off said infeed conveyor means and to said proof tray.    7.   the    continuous sorter   mechanism    according to claim 6 and in which said a fifth proof conveyor means is disposed generally between said proof deflector means and said proof} tray for conveying sheets of paper to said proof tray.        b.      tiil    continuous sorter mechanism according to   claim    1 and   ill      which    all of said conveyor nieans are comprised of a plurality of   (generally    equally spaced apart, minimum area   crosu-section,    individual continuous belt strips which   prusent      minimum    amount of contact with said sheets of paper to recce the driven conveyor mass and to reduce the static electricity charge in the paper sheets and conveyor system, said individual belt strips being mounted on drive and idler rollers to minimize friction in the conveyor system.    9.   till#    continuous sorter   mechanism    according to   claim    1 and in which air evacuating means are provided for creating a   vacuum    for all of said conveyor means for assisting in   time    transport of sheets of paper on all said conveyors.     10.   the    continuous sorter mechanism according to claim 1   and    in which said plurality of bin deflector means are provided with individual solenoid means for selectively actuating each bin deflector   incans    as determined by the control   system.       11.   tlie    continuous sorter mechanism according to   claim 1 in in which said plurality of deflector devices    mounted on   sdid    conveyor have front and rear extending top      walls      rally    dt   rig    angles to   each      other    and located   being    said fourth feeder conveyor in a retracted   position    and which   when    pivoted into a paper deflect position said   froiit    ana top walls are at approximately 450 angles to the plane of   said    conveyor there being one more deflector device than   t.e    number of bins in said receiver.    12. the contiiiuous sorter   mechanism    according to claim 11 and in which said deflector guide means are   disposed    between the entrance opening to each bin and said deflector devices arid feeder conveyor such that a paper   silent      traveling    down the feeder conveyor is deflected by a first deflector device into contact with a deflector guide for   guiding    said sheet into a given   bin    and such that a paper sheet traveling up the feeder conveyor is deflected   into      time    same   given    bin by the deflector next below said first:   deflector    device   and    by the   same    deflector guide.    13.   tiie      continuous    sorter   m#ci#anism    according to claim 1 and in   which    said bins have entrance openings and in which the deflector guide means for each bin opening has a horizontal section terminating in predetermined spaced relationship to the plane of the receiver bin entrances and positioned so as to be generally midway of the vertical   dinieijsion    of said bin entrance opening.      14. the continuous sorter   mechanism    according to claim 13 and in which said deflector guide means for each bin includes an upwardly angled leg and a downwardly angled leg diverging   from    said horizontal section such that the upwardly angled leg is in close proximity to said first deflector device and said downwardly angled leg is in close proximity to said deflector device next below when the deflector devices are pivoted to their deflect position.    15. the continuous sorter mechanism according to   claim    1 and in which each bin deflector device is spring loaded to a normally retracted position and also connected to an electrical actuator device for being pivoted to its deflect position.    16. the continuous sorter mechanism according to claim 1 and in which said deflector guide means are mounted in a hinged   frunle      conllected    to said feeder.    17.   'lxlle    the continuous sorter mechanism according to claim 1   alld    in which   each    of said bin deflector devices has cutaway sections in the front and top walls so that   wijen    a bin deflector is nioved to its deflect position there is no interference between said deflector and the conveyor.      18. the continuous sorter   mechanism    according to   claim    1 and   in      which    said track assembly further includes chain drive means for moving said receiver along guide   cllanslel    means on said track   assembly,    said chain drive means including a holding member for   releasably    engaging a drive engaging member on said receiver base to position said receiver at a preselected position with respect to said chain drive means, and power means for driving said chain.    19. the continuous sorter mechanism according to claim 18 and in which said holding member is a transversely disposed arm member secured to the upper run of said chain drive means and in which said releasable drive engaging means is a pivotal fork member   forreleasably    engaging said arm   member    for precise positioning of said receiver on said track.    20. the continuous sorter mechanism according to   claim    19 and in which said pivotal fork member is secured to an actuator bar having an operator handle which releasably locks the bar and fork member into operative engagement with said arm   member    for positioning of said receiver, and which actuator   bar and operator. handle    can be moved so as to disengage said fork m#nber from said   arian      member    to allow   tlie    receiver to be rolled onto or off said floor track   assembly.         21. the continuous sorter mechanism according to claim   1 and in which each column contains 50 bins such that      numerically      corresponding    bins are horizontally aligned to   tlicir    their entrance ends.    22.   he    continuous sorter mechanism according to claim 21 and in   which    each bin has a generally upstanding entrance wall extending upwardly to within a preselected distance of the bin next above it to define said entrance opening.    23. the continuous sorter   mechanism    according to   claim    1 and in which   at least    a portion of each of said bins tilts downwardly to assist in the alignment of paper copies   into    neat stacks.    24. the continuous sorter mechanism according to   claim    23 and in which said bins are provided   with    cutaway sections extending from the unloading end toward   tlie    entrance end   such      hat    an unobstructed cavity is defin-d   frown      t!ie    base to   the    top of said receiver   fraine    through -each   column    of bins   und      through    which cavity paper arresting means extend.       25.   he    continuous sorter mechanism according to claim 1 and in   which    said base of said receiver extends generally horizontally in the direction in which the bin' columns are angled to   form    a base extension and under which extension is located caster means.    26. the continuous sorter mechanism according to claim 1 and in which latching means are provided on said base section such that at least two receiver mechanisms can be releasably attached to each other to increase the   nmlber    of bins available for sorting operations.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
