<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0012547
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800625
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
H02H-7/122 H03K-17/082 H03K-17/08 H02P-7/29 H02P-7/18 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
conduction limit protection arrangement for power transistor switch.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
allis chalmers us  <sep>allis-chalmers corporation<sep>allis-chalmers corporationp.o. box 512milwaukee, wisconsin 53201us<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
stich frederick alanus<sep>stich, frederick alan<sep>stich, frederick alan2665 north lake drivemilwaukee, wisconsinus<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
the invention relates to a protective arrangement for a  power transistor switch in a brushless type electric motor  traction drive used in lift trucks.  the power transistor switch (ps) (which may comprise a  plurality of paralleled power transistors ps1-ps7,), sup­ plies power to a dc series electric traction motor (m) and is  regulated by a train of control pulses from a pulse width mod­ ulation control (pwm) to selectively vary the speed of motor  (m).  the conduction limit protective arrangement of the in­ vention automatically changes the conduction limit for tran­ sistor switch (ps) as a function of the voltage, current and  temperature conditions to which switch (ps) is subjected so  that it is within its safe operating area at all times, thereby  permitting switch (ps) to carry maximum current while being  fully protected at all times.  when power switch (ps) experien­ ces abnormal current, timing capacitor (c1) is charged at a  rate dependent upon (vce) across switch (ps), and when the  voltage on (c1) exceeds the fixed threshold value, compara­ tor (comp 1) provides an output signal to gate (nand 1)  which is opened in response thereto to turn off predriver  transistor (prd) and thereby remove the control pulse from  switch (ps).  consequently, if power switch (ps) experiences abnor­ mally high on-voltage, it is turned off after a time interval  which is a function of its collector-to-emitter voltage.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
conduction limit protection arrangeent for power transistor switch this invention relates to the protection of power transistor switches during overload conditions. variable duty cycle controls are known wherein a power transistor switch in series with an electrical power source and a load is periodically turned on and off to regulate the average voltage supplied to the load. change in load in such variable duty cycle control may draw more current from the' transistor switch and cause it- to experience abnormally high "on" voltages and move further into the active region with resultant increased voltage drop across the switch and increased heat losses that ay damage the transistor switch and cause it to fail. protection circuits, such as disclosed in united states patent 3,855,520, are known for preventing failure of a transistor power switch utilizing conduction limit means responsive to the voltage across the power switch exceeding a predetermined magnitude for reducing the duty cycle of the control pulses that turn the power transistor switch on and off. such conduction limit protective cir- cuit is based upon the fact that the voltage drop across the transistor power switch increases rapidly at currents in excess of design limits because the base drive current is not sufficient to maintain low on-voltage at higher current, and such conduction limit protective circuit utilizes a voltage threshold detector to sense the collector-to-emitter voltage drop (vce) across the power transistor switch and turn it off at high vce values. such conduction limit protective circuit tends to latch the power switch in the off state and consequently requires means to turn the transistor power stitch on again. the conduction limit circuit disclosed in u.s. patent 3,855,520 provides a narrow "guard" pulse at the beginning of each conduction period to defeat the conduction limit circuit for a short interval and thus permit the power transistor switch to again turn on. the guard pulse must be of sufficient width to assure turning on of the slowest of the paralleled transistors which comprise the power switch under rated current conditions. during the guard pulse there is no protection for the power transistors. further, the width of the guard pulse and the voltage threshold "triggering" level do not adadt to the changing conditions to which the power transistor switch may be subjected such as variations in temperature, switching time, or voltage. the conduction limit arrangement of the present invention provides continuous power transistor switch protection that is tailored to the "safe operating are" of the power transistor switch and assures safe and flexible operation at any vce value within the rating of the transistor. for example, safe operating area data is shown in the following table for a power switch using paralleled bux2o transistors designed so that peak current does not exceed fifty amperes per transistor at 650c heat sink temperature: vce tp trc (volts) (u sec) (u sec) 3.75 311 6.75 10,000 151 17.25 1,000 54 26.25 500 35 37.50 100 24 56.25 50 16 90.00 10 10 the first column
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 1. a conduction limit protective arrangement   for a power transistor switch ps comprising one or a plurality of paralleled power transistors regulated by a succession of control pulses which changes the conduction limit as a function of the switch operating conditions and permits it to carry maximum current while being fully protected at all times, characterized by,  an rc integrator circuit including a timing capacitor   (c1)    in series with a resistor (r7),  the collectorto-emitter voltage across said power transistor switch being applied across said rc integrator circuit,  a comparator (comp 1) for comparing the voltage across said timing capacitor to a relatively fixed threshold voltage and for providing an output signal when the former becomes equal to the latter,  a timing capacitor discharge circuit (mono 1 and cdt) for discharging said timing capacitor to a predetermined voltage after the termination of each said control pulse, and  a control pulse removing circuit   (d1,    nand 1, r6, prd,   q2)    responsive to said output signal from said comparator for removing said control pulse from said power transistor switch, whereby, if said power transistor experiences abnormally high on-voltages, it is turned off after a time interval which is a function of its collector-to-emitter voltage.    2. a conduction limit protective arrangement according to claim 1 characterized in that said comparator includes the base-emitter junction of a transistor and said relatively fixed threshold voltage includes the potential drop across the base-to-emitter junction of said transistor.    3. a conduction limit protective arrangement according to claim 1 or 2 characterized by a thermally dependent resistance for varying said threshold voltage as a function of the temperature of said power switch in a  direction to decrease said threshold voltage as the temperature of said power switch increases.    4. a conduction limit protective arrangement according to claim 1, 2 or 3 characterized in that said timing capacitor discharge circuit is responsive to the leading edge of each control pulse.    5. a conduction limit protective arrangement according to claim 1, 2, 3 or 4 characterized in that said timing capacitor discharge circuit initiates discharge of said timing capacitor adjacent the trailing edge of each control pulse.    6. a conduction limit protective arrangement according to claim 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 characterized in that said control pulses are provided by a pulse source which has a relatively low impedance in the interval between pulses and said timing capacitor discharge circuit includes said pulse source.    7. a conduction limit protective arrangement according to claim 1 characterized in that the collectoremitter path of a base current drain transistor is in shunt to the base-emitter path of said power switch and said control pulse removing circuit turns on said base current drain transistor.    8. a conduction limit protective arrangement according to claim 7 characterized in that collectoremitter path of said base current drain transistor is in shunt to the series arrangement of a diode and the base-emitter path of said power switch.    9. a conduction limit protective arrangement according to claim 1 characterized in that the collectoremitter path of a base current drain transistor is in shunt to the control pulse source, and said means for removing said pulse turns on said base current drain transistor.     10. a conduction limit protective arrangement according to any of the preceding claims characterized in that paralleled transistors normally operate in saturation, and said comparator provides said output signal when  said transistors come out of saturation and move in the active region.    11. a conduction limit protective arrangement according to any of the preceding claims characterized in that said parallel transistors are in a darling ton arrangement with a driver transistor which normally operates in saturation and said comparator provides said output signal when said transistors experience sufficiently high on voltage to cause said driver transistor to come out of saturation and move into the active region.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
