<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0016602
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19801001
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
F03D-1/00 F03D-1/06 F03D-7/02 F03D-7/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
improvements in rotors for wind powered electric generators.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
gilchrist timothy m<sep>gilchrist, timothy michael<sep>gilchrist, timothy michaelmavis banknewrath waterfordie<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
gilchrist timothy michael<sep>gilchrist, timothy michael<sep>gilchrist, timothy michaelmavis banknewrath waterfordie<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
the rotor comprises an outer annular augmenter (1) of  aerofoil cross-section connected to a central hub (2) by a  plurality of radial cables (3, 6) of high tensile strength, which  also support a plurality of radially disposed rotor blades (5).  in  a preferred embodiment the rotor blades (5) are adjustable in  length in a radial direction so that the surface area presented  by the blades (5) may be reduced.  each blade (5) may com­ prise a plurality of templates (14) spaced radially along the  support cables (6) and covered by a flexible membrane (16),  and means are provided for sliding the templates (14) along  the support cables when it is desired to adjust the length of the  blades.  a second annular augmenter (4) or shroud may be  positioned intermediate the outer augmenter (1) and hub (2)  and concentric therewith in which case a first set of radial  rotor blades (5) is positioned between the outer and inter­ mediate augmenters, and a second set positioned between  the intermediate augmenter and the hub (2).  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
improvements in rotors for wind-powered electric generators the invention relates to improvements in rotors for wind-powered electric generators and the like. in recent years the general tendency has been to use a two-bladed rotor with vaind-powered electric generators. theoretically, a mathematical computerdesigned two-bladed high speed wind rotor is the most efficient type but this has not always proved to be the case in practice. all two-bladed rotors, of their nature, are two-dimensional structural systems only (i.e. single counterbalanced beams rotating around a fixed centre point), and are of very limited structural integrity. such natural hazards as ice, snow, wind blown sand, hiqh wind gusts and wind shadow vibration from the rotor supporting tower, added to the rotor's own centrifugal stresses and strains invariably result in extremely dangerous control problems and ultimately complete collapse of the rotor. such high speed operational breakages of heavy two-dimensional rotor blades are extremely hazardous to life and property within a large area radius of the windpowered generator. the use of single-bladed wind turbines has been experimented with but these are also subjected to the above problems, and may also experience excessive vibration levels and high noise output because of high tip-speed ratios. it is an object of the invention to overcome the problems associated with oneand two-bladed rotors and to provide a multi-blade wind turbine rotor having a three-dimensional tensile structural system. it is also an object of the invention to provide a rotor in which the surface area of the blades may be reduced without altering the pitch of the blades. according to the invention a wind turbine rotor comprises an outer annular peripheral member of aerofoil section connected to an annular hub member by means of a plurality of radial cables of high tensile strength to provide a rigid wheel structure, and a plurality of rotor blades of aerofoil section disposed radially between the outer peripheral member and the hub member preferably, a second annular aerofoil member is disposed concentrically with said outer peripheral member and is positioned between said outer peripheral member and the hub member. the aerofoil rotor blades are pre-ferably -,supported on a plurality of radial cables of high tensile strength connecting the outer peripheral member with the hub member. inhere a second annular aerofoil member is provided one set of aerofoil rotor blades may be disposed radially outwardly of the second annular aerofoil member, virile a second set of aerofoil rotor blades is disposed radially inwardly of the second annular member. in oneiembodiment the number of radial aerofoil rotor blades disposed between the second annular aerofoil member and the outer annular peripheral member is greater than the number of rotor blades between said second annular aerofoil member and the hub member. according to a second aspect of the invention a wind turbine rotor comprises an outer annular peripheral member connected to an annular hub member by means of a plurality of radial cables of high tensile strength to provide a rigid wheel structure, a plurality of rotor blades of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims   1. a wind turbine rotor comprising an outer annular peripheral member (1) of aerofoil section connected to an annular hub member (2) by means of a plurality of radial cables (3, 6) of high tensile strength to provide a rigid wheel structure, and a plurality of rotor blades (5) of aerofoil section disposed radially between the outer peripheral member (1) and the hub member (2).   2. a rotor according to claim 1, wherein a second annular aerofoil member (4) is disposed concentrically with said outer peripheral member (1) and is positioned between said outer peripheral member (1) and the hub member (2).   3. a rotor according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the aerofoil rotor blades (5) are supported by radial cables (6) of high tensile strength connected between said outer annular peripheral member and said hub member.   4. a rotor according to claim 2, wherein a first set of aerofoil rotor blades (5) is disposed radially outwardly of the second annular aerofoil member, while a second set of aerofoil rotor blades (5) is disposed radially inwardly of the second annular member (4).   5. a rotor according to claim 4, wherein the number of radial aerofoil blades (5) disposed between the second annular aerofoil member (4) and the outer annular peripheral member (1) is greater than the number of rotor blades (5) between said second annular aerofoil member (4) and the hub member (2).   6. a wind turbine rotor comprising an outer annular peripheral member (1) connected to an annular hub member (2) by means of a plurality of radial cables (3, 6) of high tensile strength to provide a rigid wheel structure, a plurality of rotor blades (5) of aerofoil section disposed radially between the outer peripheral member (1) and the hub (2) and supported by said radial cables (6), wherein means are provided for adjusting the radial length of the rotor blades (5) whereby the surface area of the rotor blades (5) may be reduced.   7. a rotor according to claim 6, wherein each radial rotor blade (5) comprises a plurality of templates (14) of aerofoil shape disposed in spaced apart parallel relation along said radial cables (6), and a flexible membrane (16) con  nected to the outer edges of the templates (14) to form the outer surface of the rotor blade, and wherein means are provided for moving said templates (14) radially towards or away from the hub member (2) whereby the radial length of the rotor blade (5) is adjusted.   8. a rotor according to claim 7, wherein the means for moving the templates (14) comprises at least one cable (6a) movable in a radial direction between the hub member (2) and the outer, annular peripheral member   (1).         9.    a rotor according to claim 8, wherein the radial support cables (6) of high tensile strength pass through apertures in the surface of each template (14) such that the templates (14) may slide radially along the cables, and wherein there is a pair of movable control cables   (6a)    passing through apertures in the surface of each template (14), and wherein the radially outermost template (14(7)) is permanently connected to said control cables   (6a),    and means are provided for moving said control cables (6a) radially in   opposite    directions to cause said radially outermost template (14(7)) to slide radially along the support cables (6) which in turn causes the other templates (14(2) to 14(6)) to slide along the support cables (6).       10.    a rotor according to claim 9, wherein the means for moving the control cables comprises   winding    drum (18) driven by a reversible electric motor (24), and wherein the templates other than radially innermost (14(1)) and the radially outermost (14(7)) templates are each provided with clamps (27) which are adapted to releasably grip said control cables   (6a),     
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
