<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0009924
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800416
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
D02G-3/40 D07B-1/00 D07B-1/02 D02G-3/22 D07B-5/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
thermoplastic twines and method and apparatus for their manufacture.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
exxon research engineering co us<sep>exxon research and engineering company  <sep>exxon research and engineering companyp.o.box 390, 180 park avenueflorham park, new jersey 07932-0390us<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
dewhurst williamus<sep>o'neil john bernardus<sep>dewhurst, william<sep>o'neil, john bernard<sep>dewhurst, william7816 lexinton avenuephiladelphia pennsylvaniaus<sep>o'neil, john bernard109 patriot placesummerville south carolinaus<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a twine comprised of a core bundle of synthetic monofi­ laments (4) twisted along the length of the twine and a synthe­ tic binder material (18) in thin band form spirally wound about  the monofilaments in a direction opposite to the core bundle  twist.  a method of producing such twine comprises, passing a  bundle of thermoplastic monofilaments (4) continuously  along a path, imparting a false twist of 3 to 30 turns per linear  foot to said bundle, applying a compatible molten thermop­ lastic spiral band (18) to said twisted bundle as a spiral band to  fuse said spiral band to the outer monofilaments (16), and  recovering a twine having a portion of said false twist cap­ tured therein by fusion of the spiral band thereon.  the apparatus for obtaining this twine consists of a path  along which a bundle (4) of thermoplastic synthetic monofi­ laments having a false twist therein can be continuously  moved, means (5) to direct a molten compatible thermoplas­ tic onto said twisted bundle to form one or more spiral bands  (18) on said bundle and to fuse the outer monofilaments (16)  of the bundle to the spiral band (18) and means (8) for impart­ ing a false twist to said bundle at a point prior to said directing  means.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
this invention relates to synthetic monofilament twines. more particularly, this invention relates to synthetic monofilament twines produced from a bundle of oriented thermoplastic monofilaments which are twisted along the length of the twine and which are bound by a thermoplastic material which extends around the bundle in spiral form. another asdect of the present invention relates to a method and apparatus for producing the twine described above from thermoplastic materials. u.s. patent no. 2,552,210 to w. b. parker discloses a ply yarn comprising a bundle of natural fibers entwined together with a fine filament nylon yarn. the dly yarn has a twist imoarted to it. u.s; patent no. 3,315,454 to enerza discloses a synthetic twine suitable for forming knots in baling, tying and other automatic knot tying machines. the twine comprises a dlurality of filaments of a thermoplastic resin and containing dispersed therein a gas so as to produce foamed filaments. u.s. patent no. 3,446,002 to kippan discloses a twine comprised of a bundle of substantially parallel synthe t c monofilaments with a synthetic binder material in thin band form wrapped around and fused to the outer monofilaments, u.s. patent no. 3,577,873 discloses a core yarn com- prising a core component of set false twisted synthetic continuous multifilaments and at least one wrapping component of synthetic continuous filaments formed in helices around the core components, the direction of the helices being reversed at intervals along the yarn. u.s. patent no. 3,769,787 to rosenstein et al discloses a multiple filament yarn of synthetic textile useful for knitting, winding and weaving which multi-filarnent textile yarn has continuously disposed thereabout two special wrapper filaments wrapped in a generally helical path about the core filaments of the yarn, one wrapper being disposed in a clockwise manner and the other wrapper being dispersed in a counterclockwise manner. u.s. patent no. 3,851,457 to waters discloses a cors yarn comprised of a set false twisted core and a wrapper of filaments formed in reversing helices. u.s. patent no. 3,415,919 to kionan discloses a method of droducing a twine by extruding a thermoplastic material in a spiral onto an untwisted bundle of oriented thermoplastic monofilaments. according to kippan prior art fiber twine of necessity is twisted in order to transmit stress fro one fiber to another and develop the continuity of tensile strength of the cord. the patentee notes that monofilament twine prior to his development was twisted so that the monofilaments contained themselves by intettwined helixes to form a unit twine or cord. kippan notes several disadvantages of twisted twine the primary disadvantage is a weaker twine, since the helixes are able to assume only a portion of an applied tensile load, whereas in a oarallel alignment of monofilaments each filament is able to fully bear an applied tensile load. in theor at least, the tensile strength of a twine having all of the monofilaments aligned is the sum of the tensile strengths of each filament (in practice tensile strength is slightly less) another disadvantage of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
what we   claim i       1. a twine comprising a core bundle of continuous synthetic oriented monofilaments extending lengthwise of the twine and a synthetic binder in thin band form made from a   material    compatible with the monofilaments material, spirally wound about the twisted monofilaments, the spirally wound band being adhered to the outer monofilaments along the length of the twisted core bundle, characterized in that the monofilaments are twisted so as to contain from 3 to 30 turns per linear foot of monofilament twine and that the spiral band is wound in a direction reverse to that of the twist of the filaments and containing about 8 to 30 spirals per linear foot of the twisted monofilaments.    2. a twine according to claim 1 characterized in that the core bundle contains from 40 to 340 monofilaments.    3. a twine according to claim 2 characterized in that the core bundle contains from 95 to 195 monofilaments.    4. a twine aecording to claims 1-3 characterized in that the core bundle of monofilaments is spirally encapsulated while in a false twisted condition.    5. a twine according to claims 1-4 wherein said core filaments are twisted so as to contain from about 5 to 15 turns per linear foot of monofilament twine.    6. a twine according to claim 5 wherein said core filaments contain about 6 turns per linear foot of monofilaments and said soiral bond contains about 10 to about 16 spirals per linear foot of monofilaments.    7. a twine according to claims 1-6 characterized in that the synthetic monofilaments and spiral binder are   termo-    plastic resins, including oolyolefins,   oolyamides,    polyesters,   bolycarbonates    and polyvinyl types.      8. a twine according to claim 7   character.zed    in that the thermoplastic resins are polyolefins and the binder   thermonlastic      polyolefin resins    or thermodlastic rubber.    9. a twine aecording to claim 8 characterized in that the polyolefins are selected from   polypropylene    polyethylene and copolymers of ethylene and propylene.    10. a   twineaecording    to claim 9 characterized in that the synthetic monofilaments and binder are polypropylene.    11. a twine according to claims 1-10 characterized in that said monofilaments have a denier of about 50 to 1000 and the twine is in the range of about 5000 to 50,000 denier and the denier of the spiral band is in the range of 10% to 25% of the denier of the total twine denier.    12. a twine according to claim 11 characterized in that said twine is in the range of about 20,000 to 40,000 denier, said monofilaments are about 200 denier and the denier of the spiral band is about 15% of the total twine denier.    13. a twine according to claims 1-12 characterized in that the spiral band is foamed.    14. a twine according to claims 1-12 characterized in that the monofilaments and spiral band are foamed.    15. a twine according to claim 13 characterized in that the spiral band contains a gas dispersed therein at about 16 to about 66% of volume based on the volume of the resin.    16. a twine according to claim 14 characterized in that the monofilaments and band contain a gas dispersed therein at about. 16 to about   6670    volume based on the volume of   che    resin.    17. a twine according to claims 13 or 14 characterized in that the gas is present at about 32% by volume based on the volume of the resin.      18. a method of making twine comprising continuously drawing a bundle of substantially parallel synthetic monofilaments along a path imdarting a twist to said bundle of monofilaments and directing a stream of molten synthetic material onto   ':    outer surface of said moving, monofilament bundle to form   =      viral    band therearound, the molten material being directed onto the surface of said bundle at a temperature and pressure sufficient to cause the band which is formed to fuse to the contact monofilaments without material affecting the   strength    of the fused monofilaments. characterized in that   the twfst st which is a false twist is at the rate of about 3    to about   30 turns    per linear foot and that the molten material is directed onto the twisted bundle.    19. a method according to claim 18 characterized in that the monofilaments on the inside of said bundle are free to move relative to each other.    20. a method according to claims 18 or 19 characterized in that synthetic materials are thermoplastic.    21. an apparatus for producing twine from a bundle of synthetic monofilament, comdrising:  a path along which a bundle of substantially parallel synthetic monofilaments can be continuously drawn,  means for directing a continuous stream of molten synthetic   matefiais    which is compatible with said monofilament material, onto the outer monofilaments of the twisted moving bundle, thereby forming a spiral band therearound,  means for   supplying    said molten synthetic material to said directing means at a temperature and pressure sufficient to cause the formed spiral band to fuse with the said outer monofilaments without materially affecting the strength of said outer monofilaments of said bundle, whereby the other monofilaments of said bundle are left free to move relative to each other,  and characterized by    a false twisting means for imparting a false twist to said bundle of monofilaments effective at a point prior to said directing means, whereby said bundle of monofilaments is characterized as having a false twist therein along said path.    22. an apparatus according to claim 21 characterized in that false twisting means is located downstream of said directing means along said path.    23. an apparatus according to claim 21 or 22 characterized in that said false twisting means comprises means for grasping said bundle of monofilaments having a spiral band therearound'and rotating said bundle about a longitudinal axis, whereby said bundle of monofilaments is twisted along said path to a point on said path, prior to said directing means.     24. an apparatus according to claims 21-23 characterized by a rotatably mounted frame mounted in said path, at least one rotatably mounted sheave mounted tangentially to said path, for passing said banded bundle of monofilaments around said sheave thereby securing said banded bundle such that rotation of said frame causes said banded bundle to twist.    25. an apparatus according to claims 21-24 characterized by a pair of rotatably mounted sheaves are diagonally mounted in said frame tangential to said   neath    whereby said banded bundle passes around both sheaves.    26. an apparatus according to claims 21-25 characterized in that said directing means comprises at least one nozzle directed toward said path and capable of moving circumferentially about said path.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
