<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0012833
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800709
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
G03F-7/00 G03F-7/095 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
process and apparatus for making lithographic printing plates
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
fromson h a us  <sep>fromson, howard a.<sep>fromson, howard a.49 main streetstonington, ct 06378us<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
fromson howard aus<sep>gracia robert fus<sep>fromson, howard a.<sep>gracia, robert f.<sep>fromson, howard a.15 rogues ridge roadweston, connecticut 06880us<sep>gracia, robert f.451 first parish roadscituate, massachusetts 02066us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
lithographic printing plates are made by exposing to actinic light a lithographic plate having a water soluble light sensitive layer thereon and a coating of a solvent soluble, uv curable material thereover to form an image in the light sensitive layer and adhere said layer to the overlying uv curable material.  the plate is developed with water to remove light sensitive layer and overlying uv curable material in the non-image areas, and the plate is exposed to uv source having an intensity greater than the imaging light to form a press-ready plate having a durable, reinforced cured image thereon. 
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
background this invention relates to a process and apparatus for making press-ready lithographic printing plates having a durable, reinforced, cured image thereon wherein the image is formed and reinforced in two separate exposure steps, the first to form the image, and the second to cure or cross link the image. lithographic printing techniques, using, for example, anodized and silicated aluminum base plates such as described in fromson patent no. 3,181,461 issued may 4, 1965, have come into widespread use in the printing industry and especially in offset printing and direct lithographic printing by newspapers using converted letterpress printing presses. a conventional negative working lithographic printing plate of this type has a coating of a light sensitive substance that is adherent to the aluminum base sheet after exposure. if the light sensitive coating is applied to the base sheet by the manufacturer, the sheet is referred to as a "presensitized plate". if the light sensitive substance is applied to the base by the lithographer or trade plate maker, the plate is referred to as a "wipe-on plate". depending on the nature of the photosensitive coating employed, a coated plate may be utilized to reproduce directly the image to which it is exposed, in which case it is termed a positive-acting plate, or to produce an image complementary to the one to which it is exposed, in which case it is termed a negative acting plate. in either case, the image area of the developed plate is oleophilic and the nonimage area is hydrophilic. in the case of a negative working plate, the surface is coated with an aqueous solution of a conventional diazo resin. the plate is dried and exposed through a negative. the exposed image areas become water insoluble and the unexposed non-image areas remain water soluble. the plate is conventionally developed with a lithographic lacquer which consists of a two-phase system, one phase containing an oleophilic resin and the other phase a hydrophilic gum. upon application, the oleophilic resin adheres to the exposed insoluble areas, while the hydrophilic phase dissolves away the unexposed soluble non-image areas. in this way, the image areas are made oleophilic or ink receptive and the non-image areas are made hydrophilic or ink repellent. the use of a lithographic lacquer as described above represents one way of reinforcing an image on a lithographic printing plate. other ways have been sought to reinforce the image to make it more durable and increase the press-life of the plate. for example, in fromson patent no. 3,773,514, a tough, wearresistant solvent insoluble protective layer is applied to the light sensitive coating before imaging and developing the plate. another proposal is set forth by adams et al. in u. s. 3,669,664 wherein a fully exposed image on a developed lithographic plate is reinforced by treating the developed plate with a lacquer made of a dispersion in water of a solution of a photopolymerizable resin in an organic solvent. the treated image can be further strengthened by exposure to actinic light
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
what is claimed is:   1. process for making a lithographic printing plate  which comprises:  a) exposing to actinic light a lithographic plate  having a water soluble light sensitive layer  thereon and an overcoating of a solvent soluble,  uv curable material, the intensity of said  light being sufficient to form at least a  latent image in the light sensitive layer and  to adhere the image to the overlying portions  of the w curable material without curing the  w curable material;  b) developing the plate with water to remove the  light sensitive layer and overlying w curable  material in the non-image areas; and  c) exposing the plate to a w source having an  intensity greater than the imaging light used  in step (a) which is sufficient to cure the  w material adhered to the image to form a  press-ready plate having a durable, reinforced  cured image thereon.   2. process of claim 1 wherein the intensity and  duration of the exposure in step (a) is sufficient  to form a latent image in the light sensitive layer  without completely curing same.   3. process of claim 1 which includes the steps of  coating the lithographic plate with a water  soluble light sensitive material and applying a  second coating of a solvent soluble w curable  material thereover, prior to step (a).   4. process of claim 1 wherein the intensity of the  w source is at least two times greater than the  intensity of the actinic light used in step (a).     5. process of claim 1 wherein the image is formed  in the light sensitive layer using a laser.   6. process of claim 5 wherein the laser is a yag  laser.   7. process of claim 5 wherein the laser is an argon  ion laser.   8. process for making a lithographic printing plate  which comprises:  a) exposing to actinic light a lithographic plate  having a water soluble light sensitive layer  thereon to form at least a latent image in said  layer;  b) applying a solvent soluble w curable material  to the imaged plate from step (a);  c) applying water to the plate from step (b) to  remove light sensitive layer and   uv    curable  material in the non-image areas leaving w  curable material adhered to the image in the  light sensitive layer; and  d) exposing the plate from step (c) to a w source  having an intensity greater than the imaging  light used in step (a) to form a press-ready  plate with a durable, reinforced cured image    thereon-.      9. process of claim 8 wherein the intensity and  duration of the exposure in step (a) is sufficient  to form a latent image in the light sensitive layer  without completely curing same.   10. process of claim 8 wherein the water is applied  to the imaged plate after step (a) and prior to  step (b).     11. process of claim 8 which includes the step of  coating the lithographic plate with a water  soluble light sensitive material prior to step (a).   12. process of claim 8 wherein the intensity of the    uv    source is at least ten times greater than the  imaging light used in step (a).   13. process of claim 8 wherein the image is formed  in the light sensitive layer using a laser.   14. apparatus for making a lithographic printing plate  which comprises:  a) means for exposing to actinic light a lithogra  phic plate having a water soluble light sensitive  layer thereon and an overcoating of a solvent  soluble w curable material, the intensity of  said means being sufficient to form an image  in the light sensitive layer and to adhere the  image to the overlying portions of the uv  curable material without curing the   uv    curable  material;  b) means for developing the plate with water to  remove light sensitive layer and overlying w  curable material in the non-image area;  and  c) means for exposing the plate to a w source  having an intensity greater than the imaging  light means of paragraph (a), said w source  having an intensity sufficient to cure the w  material to form a press-ready plate having  a durable, reinforced cured image thereon.   15. apparatus of claim 14 which includes means for  applying a water soluble light sensitive coating  to the lithographic plate and for applying a  coating of a solvent soluble w curable material  thereover.     16. apparatus of claim 14 wherein the means for  exposing is a laser.   17. apparatus for making a lithographic printing  plate which comprises:  (a) means for exposing to actinic light a litho  graphic plate having a water soluble light  sensitive coating thereon to form an image  in said coating;  (b) means for applying a solvent soluble   uv     curable material to .the imaged plate from  paragraph (a);  (c) means for applying water to the plate from  paragraph (b) to remove light sensitive coating  and overlying   uv    curable material in the non  image areas leaving the   uv    curable material  adhered to the image; and  (d) means for exposing the plate from paragraph  (c) to a   uv    source having an intensity greater  than the imaging light means of paragraph (a)  which is sufficient to cure the   uv    material.   18. apparatus of claim 17 which includes means for  coating a lithographic plate with a water-soluble,  light sensitive material.   19. apparatus of claim 17 wherein the means for ex  posing is a laser.   20. lithographic printing plate comprising a litho  graphic substrate having a two-layer, cured image  thereon, the first layer being a light sensitive  material imaged by exposure to a first light  source and the second layer being cured after    the image is formed by exposure to a second light  source which is more intense than the first light  source, said second layer not being curable by  the first light source.   21. plate of claim 20 wherein the first layer is a  water soluble diazo material.   22. plate of claim 20 wherein the second layer is  a   uv    curable material.   23. plate of claim 20 wherein the first layer is  laser imaged.   24. process   for; making    a printed circuit which  comprises:  (a) exposing to actinic light a composite laminate  having a conductive layer, a water soluble  light sensitive layer thereon and an overcoating  of a solvent soluble,   uv    curable material, the  intensity of said light being sufficient to  form at least a latent image in the light  sensitive layer and to adhere the image to the  overlying portions of the   uv    curable material  without curing the   uv    curable material;  (b) developing with water to remove the light  sensitive layer and overlying   uv    curable mate  rial leaving bare conductive layer in the non  image areas;  ;  (c) exposing the plate to a   uv¯source    having an  intensity greater than the imaging light used  in step (a) which is sufficient to cure the  w material adhered to   the-image;    and     (d) removing conductive layer from the non-image  areas.   25. process for making a printed circuit which  comprises:  (a) exposing to actinic light a composite laminate  having a conductive layer and a water soluble  light sensitive layer thereon to form at  least a latent image in said light sensitive  layer;  (b) applying a solvent soluble   uv    curable material  to the imaged laminate from step (a);  (c) applying water to the laminate from step (b)  to remove light sensitive layer and   uv    curable  material in the non-image areas leaving   uv     curable material adhered to the image- in the  light sensitive layer and bare conductive  layer in the non-image areas;  (d) exposing the plate from step (c) to a   uv     source having an intensity greater than the  imaging light used in step (a); and  (e) removing conductive layer from the non  image areas.   26. process for selectively coating a surface which  comprises:  (a) providing a surface which is not wetted by a  given liquid;  (b) altering selected portions of said surface  such that the given liquid will wet the    selected portions; and  (c) contacting said surface with the given liquid  to wet and coat only said selected portions  with said given liquid.    27. process of claim 26 wherein the polarity of  selected portions of said surface is altered in  step (b).   28. process of claim 26 wherein the surface tension  of selected portions of said surface is altered  in step (b).   29. process of claim 26 wherein the hydrophilic/lipo  philic balance of selected portions of said  surface is altered in step (b).   30. process of claim 26 wherein said surface is  sensitive to actinic light and is altered in  selected portions in step (b) by exposure to  actinic light.   31. process of claim 26 wherein the given liquid  is   uv    curable and is so cured after step (c).  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
