<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0014788
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800903
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
F24H-3/06 F24H-3/02 F24J-3/00 F24H-7/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
friction heat generator and method of generating heat in the same.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
frenette eugene joseph <sep>frenette, eugene joseph <sep>frenette, eugene josephbox 255derry new hampshire 03038us<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
frenette eugene joseph<sep>frenette, eugene joseph<sep>frenette, eugene josephbox 255derry new hampshire 03038us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a furnace or space heater (20) is operable at low cost by a  small electric motor (45) which rotates an elongated cylindri­ cal drum (51), on a vertical axis, within an elongated cylindri­ cal casing (27) at a clearance of about one eighth of an inch to  form an annular chamber (58) therebetween.  a supply of light  lubricant normally occupies the lower portion of the annular  chamber (58) but rises to fill the chamber (58) during rotation  of the drum (51).  the casing (27) is enclosed in a housing (21),  having a fan chamber (36) containing the electric motor (45)  and fan or blower (46).  the motor shaft (48) may rotate both  the fan and the drum (51).  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
friction heat generator the invention concerns a friction heat generator. according to the present invention there is proposed a friction heat generator comprising inner and outer hollow drums arranged in telescoped disposition for relative rotation about a vertical axis, the said drums having opposed circumferential faces spaced apart by a fixed clearance of small dimension to define an upstanding, annular liquid receptacle and further having bottom walls arranged in spaced apart disposition to form a shallow liquid receptacle to receive a supply of oil which normally occupies only said shallow liquid receptacle but which on relative rotation between the drums, rises into the annular liquid receptacle to transfer frictional heat to the drums, and electric motor means operatively connected to one said drum to rotate the same on a vertical axis relative to the other said drum at substantial speed. the invention also includes the method of generating heat by means of an outer, stationary, member and an inner member, rotatably mounted within said outer member, there being a supply of oil within said outer member, said method comprising the steps of forming said members as hollow drums, one telescoped within the other, and both upstanding vertically so that the inner drum rotates on a central vertical axis relative to the outer drum and so that there is a clearance space between drums of only small dimension limiting the supply of oil within said outer drum to a predetermined quantity so that it normally occupies only the bottom of the said clearance space and then rotating said inner drum at substantial speed within said outer drum to heat said oil, cause it to rise up into said clearance space and transfer heat to said outer drum. friction heat is generated not by two metal, or other, surfaces contacting each other, but by the contact of the opposing surfaces with the oil which not only lubricates but generates heat. the invention will now be described further, by way of example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings in which: fig. 1 is a front elevational view of the portable space heater of the invention, in half section; fig. 2 is a top plan view in section on line 2-2 of fig. 1; and fig. 3 is a view similar to fig. 1 of the device of the invention in an alternative form. referring now to the drawings, figs. 1 and 2 illustrate an embodiment of the friction heat heater 20 of the invention which includes an upstanding, hollow, cylindrical housing 21 formed of imperforate sheet metal 22 and having legs 23 for supporting it on a floor 24 of a building. the space heater 20 is portable and in the portable embodiment illustrated in figs. 1 and 2 the housing 21 is of predetermined diameter of about twelve inches and of predetermined height of about thir-two inches. ivaci within h;,c3ing 21 by su4abla brackets 25 and is g hollow cylindrical casing 27 which is of predeter- mined diameter less than the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:   1. a friction heat generator   comprising    inner   ano    outer hollow drums arranged in telescoped disposition for relative rotation about a vertical axis, the saic' drums having opposed circumferential faces spaced apart by a fixed clearance of small dimension to define an upstanding, annular liquid receptacle and further having bottom walls arranged in spaced apart disposition to form a shallow liquid receptacle to receive a supply of oil which normally occupies only said shallow liquid receptacle but which, on relative rotation between the drums, rises into the annular liquid receptacle to transfer frictional heat to the drums, and electric motor means operatively connected to one said drum to rotate the same on a vertical axis relative to the other said drum at substantial speed.   2. a friction heat generator as claimed in claim 1, wherein the inner and outer drums are both of cylindrical configuration.   3. a friction heat generator as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein said inner drum is journalled in said outer drum for rotation about said vertical axis.   4. a friction heat generator as claimed in any one    of    claims 1 to 3, wherein the electric motor means is operatively connected to the said inner drum to rotate the same relative to the outer drum.   5. a friction heat generator as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein said inner drum is sealed and   sid    outer drum is sealed except for an oil conduit connecting said annular liquid receptacle and said shallow receptacle  to   outde      said    outer drum.   6. a friction heat generator as claimed in any one    c      claims    1 to 5, wherein the said opposed circumferential faces are spaced apart by a constant distance of   app..-x-    imately three millimetres.   7. a friction heat generator as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 6, further including a supply of oil thin the shallow liquid receptacle.   8. a friction heat generator as claimed in claim 7, wherein said oil is a light oil and is present in a quantity sufficient, in the absence of relative rotation between the drums, to contact both of the opposed bottom walls of the drums.   9. a friction heat generator as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 8, further including a housing extending around said telescoped drums and electric motor   operated    fan means in said housing for drawing ambient air into said housing around said drums and discharging   th      sne    from the housing.   10. the method of generating heat in a flameless manner by means of an outer, stationary, member and an inner member, rotatably mounted within said outer member, there being a supply of oil within said outer member, said   method    comprising the   steps    of forming said members as   hollow      drawls,    one telescoped within the other, and both upstanding vertically so that the inner drum rotates on a central vertical axis relative to the outer drum   arztd    so that there is a clearance space between drums of only small dimension. limiting the supply of oil within said  outer drum to a   predeteix - -- '2 :  - -    normally occupies only the bottom of the said   cieara.!ze    space and then rotating said inner drurn at substantial speed within said outer drum to heat said oil, cause it to rise up into said   clearnace    space and transfer heat to said outer   drum.       11. the method as claimed in claim 10, wherein the clearance space between the hollow drums is approximately three millimetres.   12. a friction heat generator substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to and as illustrated in figs. 1 and 2 or fig. 3 of the accompanying drawings.   13. a flame-free heater including a friction heat generator as claimed in any one of the preceding claims.   14. the method of generating heat in a flame-free manner substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to and as illustrated in figs. 1 and 2 or fig.   3 of the accompanying drawings.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
