<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0014848
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800903
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
G01K-11/00 G01N-21/25 G08C-23/04 G08C-23/00 G01K-11/14 G01D-5/353 H01L-31/0248 G02B-5/20 G01N-21/27 G01D-5/26 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
method and apparatus for an optical sensor utilizing semiconductor filters
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
rockwell international corpus<sep>rockwell international corporation<sep>rockwell international corporation2230 east imperial highwayel segundo california 90245us<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
james kenneth allanus<sep>quick william henry us<sep>strahan virgil haskell us  <sep>james, kenneth allan<sep>quick, william henry<sep>strahan, virgil haskell<sep>james, kenneth allan320 iris avenuecorona del mar, ca 92625us<sep>quick, william henry1818 kanola roadlahabra heights, ca 90631us<sep>strahan, virgil haskell2519 dorothy driveorange, ca 92619us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a method and resulting apparatus for implementing a unique optical sensor that is adapted to be interfaced with a low cost, compact fiber-optic transmission system to provide an accurate indication of a sensed physical parameter (e. g.  temperature) of a remote sample.  the sensor is fabricated so as to include a semiconductor material that has optical-wavelength-dependent filter characteristics that may be varied as a function of a physical parameter such as temperature.  in one embodiment, a graded optical filter fabricated by using thin-film deposition techniques on an amorphous semiconductor material, provides position responsive high-pass filter characteristics.  such filter characteristics are then utilized by moving a light source as a function of a physical parameter and generating an optical signal therefrom having a cutoff frequency dependent upon the position of the light source.  in another embodiment, the temperature dependent frequency cutoff characteristics in the absorption edge of amorphous selenium, are utilized more directly in an optical temperature sensor.  the optical utilization of amorphous semiconductor material is a particularly advantageous feature of the invention in reducing the cost and complexity of semiconductor optical filters. 
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
method and apparatus for an optical sensor utilizing semi conductor filters. background of the invention 1. field of the invention. this invention relates to a method for fabricating and to the resulting apparatus for implementing a unique semiconductor optical filter sensor that is suitable for providing accurate representations of a physical parameter in an optical sensor system. 2. prior art. conventional sensors which are adapted to measure various physical characteristics of a sample, typically provide an analog electric output signal. such conventional analog sensors may be limited in some applications because of their relatively large size. moreover, systems that have heretofore been interfaced with sensors of the prior art are relatively expensive to fabricate, are often not capable of carrying sufficiently wide bandwidth signals, and lack immunity to electromagnetic and/or electrostatic interference. devices that are known to those skilled in the art and which are generally adapted to optically convey information that is transmitted by means of incident light beams to measure various physical parameters (such as temperature, pressure, etc.) operate in a manner involving a plurality of reflections and splittings of a single beam of incident light so that interference and support of the components of the incident light may occur numerous times. therefore these devices have the disadvantageous characteristic of intensity variations that are inimical to the accuracy of the signal representation of the sensed parameter. an example of an optical sensor that is interfaced with a fiber optic transmission system to provide accurate digital representations of a physical parameter from a remote sample, can be found in u.s. patent application serial no. 928,223 entitled "fiber optic temperature sensor'1, filed july 26, 1978. however, nothing is known in the prior art which shows or suggests the claimed method and resulting apparatus for utilizing a semiconductor material that has opticalwavelength-dependent filter characteristics that may be varied as a function of a physical parameter such as temperature. furthermore, nothing is known in the prior art which applies amorphous semiconductor material in an optical filter for any purpose, let alone for use in an apparatus for sensing physical parameters, such as that disclosed and claimed below. summary of the invention briefly, and in general terms the invention may be summarized as a method and apparatus for implementing a unique optical sensor that comprises a semiconductor optical filter that has optical-wavelength-dependent characteristics that may be varied as a function of a physical parameter such as temperature. in a first embodiment, the invention utilizes a graded optical filter fabricated by depositing films of amorphous semiconductor material and changing the annealing temperature as a function of the linear position along semiconductor film so that the resultant graded filter has a cutoff frequency for the incoming optical signal that varies as a function of the position of that signal with respect to the filter. consequently, any physical parameter that can be sensed by a device which can be made to shift a white light source, such as a fiber optic port, in response to the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims  1. a method for fabricating a sensor for use in an optical sensor system that utilizes a position variable light beam for sensing the status of a physical parameter and a transmission means for reporting the status to a detector, the method comprising the steps of:  1. selecting a semiconductor material having  optical wavelength cutoff characteristics  at the edge of the absorption band, which  vary with annealing temperature,    2.    annealing a region of said semiconductor  material at a selected annealing temperature,  3.  repeating step 2 hereof for additional  regions of semiconductor material and  modifying the annealing temperature for  each such additional region relative to  the annealing temperature of the previous  region, and  4, selecting an annealing temperature for  each said region to provide a contiguous  composite of such regions which, in  combination, provide an optical filter having  a wavelength cutoff characteristic that varies  with position of said light beam relative  to said filter.    2. the method of fabricating a sensor as defined in claim 1, wherein said semiconductor material is germanium.    3. the method of fabricating a sensor as defined in claim 2,wherein said germanium semiconductor material is in an amorphous state.      4. the method of fabricating a sensor as defined in claim 1, comprising the additional step of depositing each said region as a thin film in an amorphous state.    5. an apparatus for filtering light energy comprising:  a plurality of regions of semiconductor material, each such region having wavelength cutoff characteristics that differ from the wavelength cutoff characteristics of the regions to which it is contiguous.    6. the apparatus for filtering light energy as defined in claim 5, wherein the wavelength cutoff characteristic of said semiconductor material is dependent upon its fabrication annealing temperature.    7. the apparatus for filtering light energy as defined in claim 6, wherein said semiconductor material is in an amorphous state.    8. the apparatus for filtering light energy as defined in claim 6, wherein said semiconductor material is germanium.    9. an apparatus for sensing the status of a physical parameter and for reporting such status to a detector, the apparatus comprising:  a. means for positioning a braodband light  source in response to said status,  b. a graded optical filter having a light  wavelength cutoff characteristic that  varies as a function of the position of  a light source relative to said filter,    c. means for applying said   lightsource    to  said filter,  d. means for collecting light energy from  said light source that passes through  said filter, and  e. means for applying said collected light  energy to a detector, the output signal  of said detector   being responsjv-e    to  the cutoff wavelength of said collected  light energy.    10. the apparatus for sensing the status of a physical parameter as defined in claim 9, wherein said graded optical filter comprises a plurality of contiguous regions of semiconductor material, each such region having a wavelength cutoff characteristic that differs from thewavelength cutoff characteristic of the regions to which it is contiguous.    11. the apparatus for sensing the status of a -physical parameter as defined in claim 10,   herein    the wavelength cutoff characteristic of said semiconductor material is dependent upon its fabrication annealing temperature.    12. the apparatus for sensing the status of a physical parameter as defined in claim   11,      wherein    said semiconductor material is in an amorphous state.    13. the apparatus for sensing   the-status    of a physical parameter as defined in claim 11, wherein said semiconductor material is germanium.      14. an apparatus for filtering light energy comprising a semiconductor material having a wavelength cutoff characteristic that is a function of temperature.    15. the apparatus for filtering light energy as defined in claim 14, wherein the semiconductor material is in an amorphous state.    16. the apparatus for filtering light energy as defined in claim 14, wherein said semiconductor material is selenium.    17. an apparatus for sensing the temperature of a remote sample and reporting such temperature to a detector, the apparatus comprising:  a. a broadband light source,  b. an optical filter having a light wavelength  cutoff characteristic that varies as a  function of temperature,  c. means for applying said light source to  said filter,  d. means for collecting light energy from  said light source that passes through  said filter, and  e. means for applying said collected light  energy to a detector, the outpout signal  of said detector being responsive to  the cutoff wavelength of said collected  light energy.     18. the apparatus for sensing the temperature of a remote sample as defined in claim 17, wherein said optical filter comprises a semiconductor material.      19. the apparatus for sensing the temperature of a remote sample as defined in claim 18, wherein said semiconductor material is in an amorphous state.    20. the apparatus for sensing the tempera-ture of a remote sample as defined in claim 18, wherein said semiconductor material is selenium.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
