<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0013116
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800709
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
A01D-43/00 A01D-75/20 A01D-43/06 A01D-75/00 A01D-34/63 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
rotary grass mowing machines.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
ransomes sims & jefferies ltd gb<sep>ransomes sims & jefferies, public limited company<sep>ransomes sims &amp; jefferies, public limited companynacton worksipswich ip3 9qg suffolkgb<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
jupp robert alfredgb<sep>jupp, robert alfred<sep>jupp, robert alfred8 church closeipswich, suffolk ip10 0dugb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a rotary grass mowing machine of the kind comprising a  casing (3) providing a chamber (11) with a downwardly facing  inlet (13) and a lateral passage (15) extending from the  chamber, and having a blade (15) disposed within the chamber  and rotatable so as to sweep a plane disposed generally paral­ lel to the ground (8).  in order to avoid danger from stones  discharged with cuttings through the passage, an upright  deflector (31) suitably made of plastic, or a hinged metal  sheet, is mounted within and extends across the passage in a  lower part thereof.  the deflector is spaced a substantial dis­ tance from the plane swept by the blade so that stones struck  during rotation of the blade are projected against the deflector  and fall to ground whilst cuttings entrained in the airflow are  discharged through the passage above the deflector.  a baffle  (27) may also be provided to prevent stones passing above  the deflector.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
this invention relates to rotary grass mowing machines and particularly to rotary grass mowing machines comprising a casing, having a top and a depending skirt which together provide a chamber with a downwardly facing inlet and a lateral passage extending from the chamber for discharge of cuttings, a rotatable blade disposed within the chamber of the casing and a driving shaft extending through the top of the casing and on which the blade is mounted so as to sweep a plane which in operation is disposed generally parallel to the ground and to cause a flow of air through the inlet transversely with respect to said plane. machines of the kind set forth may be provided with more than one rotatable blade within the casing and may also be provided in the form of a pedestrian controlled machine, or as a ride-on machine which is adapted to be mounted on a self-propelled vehicle, when a number of mowing machines may be arranged to afford an increased width of swath. with the ride-on type of machine, the rotary grass mowing machine may be one of a number of alternative pieces of equipment for use with a basic tractor unit. alternatively, the basic tractor unit may be fitted up with one or more rotary heads as a syzeialised machine for grass cutting only. inherent in many machines of the above kind is the danger of stones or other heavy objects hit by the blade being projected at high speed through the lateral passage. h variety of ways of reducing this danger have been proposed. for example, in some machines, stones entering the discharge p2s¯affle with cuttings are directed up to the roof, and they are there given a downward component of momentum and exit from the passage to fall to the ground quite close to the machine so that there is no danger of stones flying upwardly to hit a operator or bystander but a person standing close to the machine is still at risk. alternatively, a shield of some kind may be provided at the exit of the passage in order to prevent high speed discharge of stones with the cuttings. however, this tends to block the exit, and cause clogging of cuttings although it does reduce the danger of discharge of stones. according to the present invention there is provided an improved rotary grass mowing machine of the kind set forth, wherein the blade is located adjacent the inlet of the chamber and an upright deflector is mounted within and extends across the lateral passage in a lower part thereof and is spaced a substantial distance from the plane swept by the blade so that stones struck during rotation of the blade are projected against the deflector and fall to ground whilst cuttings entrained in the air flow transverse to the blade pass out of the casing through the lateral passage above the deflector. preferably, a baffle is mounted within the chamber above the level of the plane swept by
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:   1. a rotary grass mowing machine (1) comprising a casing (3), having a top (7) and a depending skirt   (9)    which together provide a chamber (11) with a downwardly facing inlet (13) and a lateral passage (15) extending from the chamber for discharge of cuttings, a rotatable blade (5) disposed within the chamber of the casing and a driving shaft (17) extending   through    the top of the casing and on which the blade is mounted so as to sweep a plane which in operation is disposed generally parallel to the ground (8) and to cause a flow of air through the inlet transversely with respect to said plane,  characterised in that the blade is located adjacent the inlet of the chamber and an upright deflector (31) is mounted within and extends across the lateral passage in a lower part thereof and is spaced a substantial distance from the plane swept by the blade so that stones struck during rotation of the blade are projected against the deflector and fall to ground whilst cuttings entrained in the air flow transverse to the blade pass out of the casing through the lateral passage above the deflector.   2. a rotary grass mowing machine as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that a baffle (27) is mounted within the chamber above the level of the plane swept by th   ¯    blade and extends  inwardly from the deflector towards   the    axis of rotation of the blade.   3. a rotary grass mowing machine as claimed in claim 2, characterised in that the inner edge (29) of the baffle, in plan view of the machine, is disposed. adjacent the periphery of the plane swept by the blade.   4. a rotary grass-mowing machine as claimed in claim 2 or claim 3, characterised in that the deflector depends from the baffle.   5. a rotary grass mowing machine as claimed in any preceding claim, characterised in that the deflector is adapted to absorb energy from stones impinging thereon.   6. a rotary grass mowing machine as claimed in claim 5, characterised in that the deflector comprises a hingedly mounted plate.   7. a rotary grass mowing machine as claimed in any preceding claim, characterised in that the deflector comprises plastics material.   8. a rotary grass mowing machine as claimed in any preceding claim,characterised in that the lower edge (37) of the deflector is located below the level of the inlet of the chamber.     9. a rotary grass mowing machine as claimed in any preceding claim, characterised in that the blade, at respective opposite ends, is formed along the trailing edges thereof with upturned portions (23) serving to enhance air flow transversely with respect to the plane swept by the blade.   10. a rotary grass mowing machine as claimed in claim 9, characterised in that the upturned portions of the blade are upwardly and rearwardly inclined with respect to the direction of cutting motion of the blade.    11. a rotary grass mowing machine as claimed in any preceding claim, characterised in that the lateral passage is tapered   froz    the chamber.   12. a rotary grass mowing machine as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 10, characterised in that the width of the passage is substantially uniform along its length.   13. a rotary grass mowing machine as claimed in any preceding claim,characterised in that an outer   enil    portion (39, 41) of the passage inclines upwardly from the chamber.   14. a rotary grass mowing machine as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 12 wherein an outer end portion (43, 45) of the passage inclines downwardly from the chamber.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
