<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0009842
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800416
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
A61K-9/127 A61K-38/21 <main>A61K-9/50</main> A61K-9/00 A61K-51/00 A61K-38/28 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
liposomes for drug delivery and composition containing a liposome drug system.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
procter & gambleus<sep>the procter & gamble company<sep>the procter &amp; gamble company301 east sixth streetcincinnati ohio 45202us<sep>the procter & gamble company  <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
geho walter blair<sep>geho, walter blair <sep>geho, walter blair 2024 thistle courtcincinnati, oh 45231us<sep>geho, walter blair<sep>geho, walter blair2024 thistle courtcincinnati, oh 45231us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
lipid membrane structures comprising digalactosyl  diglyceride target the liver of humans and lower animals and  are used to carry drugs to that organ, preferentially.  digalac­ tosyl diglyceride lms containing insulin provide an effective  means for treating deabets mellitus.  digalactosyl diglyceride  lms containing interferon are used to treat viral hepatitis.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
lipid membrane structures for drug delivery the present invention relates to compositions and processes for delivering ph2rmacologically-active agents pseferertíally to the liver. more specifically, lipid membrane structures ("vesicles", 11liposomes11) comprising digalactosyl diglyceride as a critical part of their makeup carry drug agents such as insulin preferential3.y to the hepatocytes of the liver. the liver is the human body's largest gland and, as such, receives a massive blood supply through both the portal vein and the hepatic artery. mtabolically, the liver is the most complex organ in the human body and, among other multiple functions, it metabolizes/distributes drugs which are introduced into the organism. the liver is also a target organ for pharrnacologically-active agents produced within the body. accordingly, an improved means for preferentially delivering drugs to the liver provides a means for allowing the drug to be handled by the body in a more natural fashion, thereby improving drug therapy the means whereby the liver handles insulin illustrates the activity of this important target organ. insulin is a hormone which affects the metabolism of the animal as a whole. the most dramatic effect of this hormone is its ability to reduce the concentration o glucose in plasma. ingested carbohydrate meals are normally digested to glucose in the gut and then absorbed into the portal circulation. the pancreas responds to carbohydrate in the gut with a release of insulin into t:e portal circulation. the portal vein carries the absorbed glucose and the released insulin to the liver. at the liver -he insulin regulates the metabolism of glucose bv the liver cells. by an unknown mechanism the liver retains most of the insulin but releases some to facilitate glucose utilization by muscle and adipose tissue. recuc- tion @@@ blood glucose is due to the insulin effection both liver and peripheral tissues. thus, while the pancreas is the source of insulin within the organism, the liver is key t its normal utilization. diabetes mellitus is a generalized, chronic meta- bolic disorder manifesting itself in its fully developed form by hyperglycemia, glycosuria, increased protein breakzdwn, ketosis and acidosis. if the disease is pro- longed, . it is usually complicated by degenerative disease of t-- blood vessels, the retina, the kidneys and the nervous system. in diabetes mellitus, the pancreas either produces or releases insufficient insulin following a carbcydrate meal. this insulin deficiency results in an inability of most tissues to utilize the glucose which is in tz blood. as a result, the blood glucose rises to abnormally high levels. then the blood glucose level excec¯s the ability of the kidney to reabsorb glucose flora the plasma ultrafiltrate, it appears in the urine. in addition, the cells of the body fail to metabolize other nutr¯nts properly and growth is usually impaired. lack of insulin to tissues eventually also results in abncrmaly high levels of toxic ketone metabolites in the blood. the final combined effect of these changes can be coma and death insulin therapy for diabetes mellitus began in 1922. in current medical practice insulin
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 lipid   liembr2no    structures which comprise a mixture   of from about 94% to about 97% by weight of distearoyl lecithin and from about   3%    to about 6% by weight   o    digalactosyl   diglyceride    are the most highly preferred carriers for drugs, and the like. such lms which comprise, as an additional ingredient, a stabilizing amount (usually about 0.5% to about 3%) of cholesterol are also useful for injection into humans and lower animals as a drug   carrier     the foregoing lms are designed for use with a component which is a drug, radiodiagnostic agent, or the like, said component being encapsulated in or associated with the lms. such combinations of   lms-drug,      lbis-    diagnostic agent, etc., are preferably used in a liquid carrier (usually sterile,   pyrogen-free    aqueous saline) suitable for injection into a human or lower animal.    highly preferred compositions of the type disclosed herein comprise insulin in combination with lipid membrane structures which comprise a mixture of from about 94% to about   979    by weight of distearoyl lecithin and from about 3% to about   6%    by weight of digalactosyl diglyceride, said lipid   membrane    structures being, most preferably, dispersed in a liquid carrier (e.g. water) suitable or injection into a   human    or lower animal.    the preferred procedure for preparing   l'ds      conailng    drugs, or the like, is disclosed in detail hereinabove for   preparing    the   insulin-lms+dgdg,    and this procedure is equally useful for preparing   lm.s    with other drugs and using other polar lipids. such lms typically comprise substantially spherical vesicles (or liposomes) having   an    average particle diameter of ca. 10 microns   (12)    and below, and are suitable for injection into humans and lower animals. the preferred average particle size range is from about 250 a to about 3000 a, most   preferably    750   r    to 3000 a. typical concentrations of drugs,   radionuclides,    and the like, prepared in this manner and suitable for use in   shamans    and   lower      animals    are listed in table ii.      table ii  amount per agent type gram of neat*   txls    chelators 0.01   mg.      µ   1000 mg.   insulin and insulin derivatives 1 unit   )    1000 units vitamins 20 iu   +    4000   iu     **   radionuclides    0.001 mg.   i    100 mg.      antineoplastics    0.001 mg.   i    100 mg.   antivirals 0.01 mg.   1000    mg.      *      "neat"    lms denotes the lms without added carriers  such as water.   ** amounts will vary with intended use and radiation  intensity. for   radiodiagnosis,    20   -)   20,000   pci    are  typical use levels. for radiotherapy, usage levels  are   ca.    100-fold higher, depending on the disease  state.    the following examples further illustrate the practice of this invention, but are not intended to be limiting thereof. it will be   appreciated    that the selection of actual amounts of specific   tms/drug    agents to be administered to any individual patient (human or animal) will fall within the discretion of the attending physician (or veterinarian) and will be prescribed in a manner commensurate with the appropriate   risk:benefit    ratio for that particular patient. appropriate dosages will depend on the patient's age, weight, sex, stage of disease and like factors uniquely within the purview of the attending physician. as a general rule, the amount of specific drug.   administered in conjunction with the lms disclosed herein will be in the range of   208    to 100% of that administered without the   lms.    the lms compositions can be administered via the g.i. tract, parenterally, e.g., by i.v.      infusion,-and    by injection.      example i     99m  2ms containing tc are prepared in the manner    disclosed above, and comprise the following.    amount/g. of ingredient lms composition dgdg 0.04 g.   dsl 0.90 g.      99mtc c 0.06 g.      *as 99mtco4 to provide ca. 1000   vci    per g. of lms.   the radioactive lms composition of example i is suspended in sterile, pyrogen-free saline (1   lms:l0    saline by weight). three mls. of the suspension are injected intravenously into a patient ca. one hour after preparation.   the   patient      s      rsted    for   g   period of cne hour and   then    liver scan photos are taken using standard techniques.   the photos show excellent liver detail, without substantial interference from surrounding soft tissues.    the composition of example i is modified by   sub-    stituting the following polar lipids for the dsl, respectively: diacetyl phosphate,   stearylamine,    phosphatidic acid, dipalmitoyl phosphatidyl choline, dimyristoyl phosphatidyl choline,   sphingcmyelin,    phosphatidyl inositol, cardiolipin, lysophosphatidyl choline, phosphatidyl ethanolamine, gangliosides, phosphatidyl serine, and mixtures thereof. excellent liver scans are secured.    radioactive   tnls    compositions are prepared in like fashion using t1-201; in-113m; in-lll; f-18; sr-85 and   i-125,    respectively.      example ii  lms containing heavy metal chelators are prepared in the manner disclosed above, and comprise the following.   ingredient amount/g. of   l1.s    dgdg 0.03 g.   dsl 0.87 g.   sodium   ethylenediaminetetraacetate    0.10 g.    the composition of example ii is suspended in sterile, pyrogen-free saline (1:1) and is   zcninistered      intravenously    to an   anal    (80 kg. body weight) suffering from lead poisoning. a total of 10 grams of the suspension are   perfused    per day. the procedure is repeated once daily for a period of seven days. the feces and   urine      o±    the animal are monitored over this seven-day treatment period. at the end of the period, substantially all lead residues are removed from the liver of the animal.     the composition of example ii is modified by replacing the naedta with an equivalent amount of the sodium salt of   ethylenetriaminepentaacetate',    sodium citrate, and sodium   exhane-l-hyaroxy-l,l-diphosphona-e,    respectively, and equivalent results are secured.    the composition of example ii is ingested orally to secure removal of lead.   example iii  lms containing gamma globulin are prepared in the manner disclosed above and administered to a subject which has come into contact with a patient suffering from viral hepatitis. a dosage of lms comprising about 0.02   ml./kg.      of gamma globulin suffices to provide at least transient protection against hepatitis a.    chronic hepatitis is treated in the manner of this invention by injecting an   d1s    suspension made in the manner of example i containing. up to 100 mg.   azathioprine.         administration      o    the   aza.hioprine-lms    by injection over a period of one month by the physician provides an effective means for managing chronic active hepatitis.    the azathioprine-lms of example iii are administered orally with good results.    example iv  the lms composition of example i is modified by replacing the tc radionuclide with   5-fluorouracil,    actinomycin d, and methotrexate, respectively. excellent liver hepatocyte targeting is secured.    example v  vitamin d (4000   itj)    is encapsulated in sonicated dsl-dgdg-cholesterol   (96%:3%:1%)    lipid membrane structures and is specifically directed to the liver when administered i.v. in the manner disclosed herein.        example    vi  interferon produced from human leukocyte cultures is incorporated into dsl-dgdg lipid   ±m.embrane    structures, as follows.    interferon can be secured by various procedures: green, et al., science   164,    1415, 1969; wheeloch, science 149, 310, 1965; richmond, archiv fur die gesamte virusforshung 27, 282, 1969; and friedman, et al.   proc. soc.   exptl,    biol. med. 125,   901;    1967. the following,preferred,procedure is fully described in "the production and use of interferon for the treatment and prevention of human virus infections" may, 1973, published   b    the tissue   culture    association, 1211   parklawn,drive,    rockville, maryland 20852. the method reported consists of the following steps. (the original paper can be referred to for exact details.)  1. collection and pooling of "buffy coats" in   0.4%      ethylenediaminetetraacetate    (edta), ph 7.2.    2. storage overnight at   4 c.       3. treatment with 10 volumes of 0.83% nh4c1, 10 min, 40c.    4. centrifugation in a mse 300 basket centrifuge, 1200 rpm. 500 ml per min.    5. resuspension of cells in phosphate buffered   saline    (pbs) containing 0.5% edta and 25  g per ml of neomycin.    6. retreatment with   nec1    as above.    7. resuspension of cells in eagle's minimum essential medium (without phosphate buffer)   supplement    with   (nh4)2so4-trea,ed    human serum (5) at   4e,    3 mg per ml of tricine and 25  g per ml of neomycin.    8. adjustment of cell concentration to 10 per ml with the above medium.      9. incubation of cells in 2 to 6 liter round flasks in water bath at   37.50c    on magnetic stirrer. the flasks have at least 50% air space and are covered with foil.    10. addition of 100 units per ml of leukocyte interferon.    11. addition of-100 hemagglutinating   (aha)    units per ml of sendai virus 2 hr later.    12. incubation for 20 hr at   37. 50c.       13. centrifugation at 2000 rpm for 40 min; the supernatant fluid is the crude interferon.    the continuous flow centrifuge permits treatment of 140 to 210 buffy coats per day. the continuous presence of serum or casein in the medium is necessary for   optimum    yields.    following the   las    manufacture procedure disclosed above, substantially   spherical      (avg.    size   rang0    250   5      te    about 3000 a) vesicles containing interferon prepared in the foregoing manner are manufactured. the walls of the vesicles comprise ca. 96% dsl and ca. 4% dgdg. typical   interferon/vesicle    preparations suitable for   adminis-    tration to humans, especially humans in need of treatment for viral hepatitis, comprise from about 10,000 to about 1,000,000 units of interferon per mg. of the vsicle carrier spheroids.    in an alternative mode, the dsl used to manufacture the vesicles of example vi is replaced by an equivalent amount of dipalmitoyl phosphatidyl choline, stearyl amine   an"    sphingomyelin, respectively. the presence of the digalactosyl moiety in the walls of the vesicles "targets" the vesicles to the hepatocytes.        cl.i\iis     1. a lipid membrane structure for administering drugs, diagnostic agents or the like to a human or lower animal, characterised in that it comprises a mixture of a major portion of a polar lipid and a minor portion of a digalactosyl derivative having a least one fatty substituent.    2. a lipid membrane structure according to claim 1   comprising from 90 % to 99.9 % by weight of the folar    lipid and from 0.1 % to 10   %    by weight of the digalactosyl derivative.    3. a lipid membrane structure according to claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the polar lipid comprises a dialkanoyl lecithin wherein the alkanoyl groups each contain from 12 to 20 carbon atoms.    4. a lipid membrane structure according to any one of claims 1-3, wherein the digalactosyl derivative is a fatty glyceride digalactosyl derivative characterized by at least one fatty substituent having a chain length in the range from c12 to c20.     5. a lipid membrane structure according to any one of claims 1-4 in the form of a vesicle or liposome having a size in the range of from 250 angstroms to 3000   angstroms.       6. a lipid membrane structure according to any one of claims 1-5 which comprises, as an additional ingredient, a stabilizing amount of cholesterol.    7. a composition comprising a drug, diagnostic agent or the like encapsulated in or associated with lipid membrane structures as claimed in any one of claims 1-6.    8. a composition according to claim 7 in a liquid electrolyte-containing carrier suitable for injection into a human or lower animal.    9. a composition according to claim 7 wherein the drug, diagnostic agent or the like is a radionuclide, a heavy metal chelator, insulin, an insulin derivative or interferon.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
