<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0005054
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19791031
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
C09C-1/22 C09C-1/00 C08K-3/22 C08L-23/00 C08L-33/00 C08L-67/00 C09C-1/24 C08L-101/00 C01G-49/06 C09D-7/12 C08L-33/02 C08K-3/00 C01G-49/02 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
process for the preparation of iron oxide and compositions containing iron oxide
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
mineral process licensing corpnl<sep>mineral process licensing corporation bv<sep>mineral process licensing corporation bv62, lange voorhoutnl-2514 eh the haguenl<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
shackleton charles edward ernegb<sep>turner john harry wallicegb<sep>shackleton, charles edward ernest<sep>turner, john harry wallice<sep>shackleton, charles edward ernestdeceasedlondon s.w.l.gb<sep>turner, john harry wallicecornerstones cockyardchapel-en-le-frith v. stockport cheshiregb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
the invention relates to a process for the preparation of micaceous iron oxide which comprises reacting ferrous chloride substantially free from disruptive impurities, with oxygen at a temperature of 300 to 1200 deg c.  the process can conveniently be carried out in a fluidised bed and it can form part of a process for the recovery of chlorine values from iron chloride.  the invention also relates to novel applications of micaceous iron oxide particularly in moulded brake pads and clutch linings and in water-based paints. 
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
title iron oxide this invention relates to a method for the production of an iron oxide and to the uses thereof. more particularly, this invention relates to a method for the production of micaceous iron oxide. micaceous iron oxide is known as a naturally occurring ore which is a steel grey laminar powder, also known as flake haematite. the flaky structure of the iron oxide is its distinguishing feature since chemically it is substantially ferric oxide. the individual particles of micaceous iron oxide resemble thin plates and have an approximate size range of 5 to 100 microns. micaceous iron oxide is believed to have been formed some 280 million years ago (carboniferrous period) when the iron oxide ore was subjected to an enormous crushing effect created by the faulting of the earth. micaceous iron oxide is used as a pigment in europe and elsewhere for the formulation of metal protective paints. this use is based primarily on the laminar nature of the oxide pigment. the flakes of this grey pigment reflect solar radiation to a high degree, and a paint film containing this oxide maintains its reflectant ability for many years by shielding the binder from destructive sunlight. further, the platelike or leafy structure of the micaceous iron oxide provides a physical barrier to the penetration of moisture and reduces the chance of corrosion. micaceous iron oxide has been mined successfully in spain, england and austria. however, the deposits in spain and england have now been depleted, and the dominant world source is now in austria, although the quality of the austrian material is less satisfactory in some aspects than the english or particularly the spanish oxides. micaceous iron oxide has in recent years been subject to a considerable price escalation. thus the paint industry has been faced with reducing quality, increasing prices coupled with some uncertainty of supply. various methods have been described in the literature for the manufacture of synthetic micaceous iron oxide. for example, u.s. patent no. 3,864,463 describes the production of a-fe203 in platelet form having a particle diameter of 2 to 100 microns by reaction of ferric chloride in the vapour phase with an oxygen-containing gas at a temperature of 400-7500c wherein the reaction is performed in a static bed of generally spheroidal particles and in the presence of a specified amount of an alkali metal halide. u.s. patent no. 3,987,156 describes a process for the production of micaceous iron oxide by subjecting an aqueous paste, obtained by mixing an aqueous ferric sulphate solution with an aqueous sodium hydroxide solution, to a hydrothermal treatment whereby micaceous iron oxide is formed in the shape of hexagonal lamellate crystals in conjunction with sodium sulphate. similar types of processes involving carrying out reactions in aqueous media have also been described in japanese patent publications 75 35096, 74 44878 and 75 90599. however, none of the processes described in the literature has led to a commercially viable process in that the known processes require a complicated series of reaction
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:   1. a process for the production of synthetic micaceous iron oxide which comprises reacting ferrous chloride with oxygen or a molecular oxygen-containing gas at a temperature in the range of about   3o00c    to 12000c to form products comprising ferric chloride vapour and solid micaceous iron oxide, the ferrous chloride being substantially free from impurities that disrupt the crystalline formation of micaceous iron oxide and wherein a portion of the reacted ferrous chloride is converted to micaceous iron oxide, and recovering the resulting solid micaceous iron oxide.   2. a process according to claim 1, wherein   tb    amount of oxygen or molecular oxygen-containing gas is controlled such that the products are substantially ferric chloride vapour and solid micaceous iron oxide.   3. a process according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the reaction temperature is controlled between   3o00c    and   700 c    4. a process according to claim 3, wherein the reaction temperature is controlled between 5000c and   650 c.      5. a process according to any of claims 1 to 4, wherein the reaction is effected in a continuously operating fluidised bed reactor in which the bed consists substantially of micaceous iron oxide and in which the fluidising gas is oxygen or a molecular oxygencontaining gas.   6. a process according to any of claims 1 to 5, wherein the micaceous iron oxide is recovered by water elutriation and/or flotation.   7. a process according to any of claims 1 to 5, wherein the micaceous iron oxide is recovered by air classification.     8. a process according to any of claims 1 to 7, wherein the micaceous iron oxide is recovered and reduced in particle size by micronising.   9. a process according to claim 5, wherein the fluidised bed overflow, consisting mainly of micaceous iron oxide, is recovered by purging out residual ferrous chloride with oxygen or a molecular oxygen-containing gas.   10. a process according to any of claims 1 to 9, wherein the ferric chloride product is subjected to partial dechlorination and the resulting ferrous chloride is recycled for reaction with oxygen or a molecular oxygen-containing gas to produce micaceous iron oxide, whereby the process for the production of synthetic micaceous iron oxide forms part of a process for the-recovery of chlorine or a chloride compound by-produced in the chlorination of a material containing iron oxide.   11. a process according to claim 10, wherein the material containing iron oxide is a titaniferous material.   12. a process according to any of claims 1 to 9, wherein the ferrous chloride is obtained by reaction of a material containing iron oxide in solid particulate form in a gas-fluidised bed of solids containing ferrous chloride with sulphur and ferric chloride at a temperature below the melting point of ferrous chloride such that the major reaction products are sulphur dioxide and solid ferrous chloride, wherein the ferrous chloride thus obtained is treated with oxygen or a molecular oxygen-containing gas to form micaceous iron oxide and wherein the ferric chloride by-produced is recycled to the gas-fluidised bed.     13. a process for the production of synthetic micaceous iron oxide substantially as herein described with reference to either of the specific examples.   14. synthetic micaceous iron oxide produced by a process according to any of claims 1 to 13.    15. a moulding composition comprising a phenolic resin and synthetic or naturally occurring micaceous iron oxide.   16. a brake pad or clutch lining moulded from a composition according to claim 15.   17. a water-based paint comprising a polymer latex or an amine/alcohol solubilised alkyd and a pigment comprising synthetic or naturally occurring micaceous iron oxide.   18. a thermoplastic composition comprising a thermoplastic polymer and a filler comprising synthetic or naturally occurring micaceous iron oxide.   19. a laminating or dough moulding composition comprising a polyester resin and synthetic or naturally occurring micaceous iron oxide.   20. a liquid epoxide comprising synthetic or naturally occurring micaceous iron oxide.   21. a roofing material comprising bitumen and synthetic or naturally occurring micaceous iron oxide.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
