<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0007810
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800206
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
C08F-279/00 C08F-279/04 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
a process for emulsion grafting diene rubber particles
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
monsanto cous<sep>monsanto company<sep>monsanto company800 north lindbergh boulevardst. louis missouri 63167us<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
bothwell jr williamus <sep>padwa allen robert us<sep>bothwell, jr., william<sep>padwa, allen robert<sep>bothwell, jr., williamold gilbertville roadware, massachusetts 01082us<sep>padwa, allen robert222 falley drivewestfield, massachusetts 01085us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
this invention relates to an improved process for preparing stable latices of relatively large rubber particles comprising the steps of (a) agglomerating a diene rubber latex having a particle size of less than about 0. 20 microns to rubber particles having a rubber particle size of about 0. 3 to 1. 0 microns, (b) stabilizing said rubber particles with an emulsifying agent forming a stable agglomerated rubber latex and (c) grafting said agglomerated rubber particles to form a latex of grafted rubber particles, the improvement comprising: carrying out step (a) at a temperature of about 1 to 25 deg c and step (c) under grafting conditions such that said monomer composition is activated with a redox catalyst system operating at temperatures of 35 to 50 deg c.  providing a stable latex of grafted agglonierated rubber particles essentially free of coagulum. 
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
a process for emulsion grafting diene rubber particles background of the invention u.s.p. 4,043,955 discloses a suitable method for continuously agglomerating rubber particles contained in a latex having a weight average diameter of about 0.01 to 0.20 microns and can be agglomerated to sizes of about 0.3 to 1.0 microns using a water soluble organic acid anhydride agglomerating system followed by stabilizing the relatively large rubber particles in the latex with an acid-stable emulsifying compound. such latices of relatively large agglomerated rubber particles have less surface area, hence, are difficult to stabilize sufficiently to be subsequently grafted with monomers without some level of coagulation during grafting. even small amounts of coagulum, e.g. 0.1 to 5%, create filtration and loss problems. u.s.p. 4,043,955 discloses a continuous agglomeration system which provides a low-shear zone for flotation and removal of coagulum. the agglomeration system operates at about 30 to 5o0c. to provide reasonable rates of agglomeration. it has now been found that continuous agglomeration can produce more stable latices of large rubber particles if carried out at temperatures of about 1 to 250 c. providing syneresis and a low temperature history for the particles for subsequent low temperature grafting by a particular redox catalyst system. u.s.p. 3,663,656 discloses a method of grafting small rubber particles and large rubber particles to form a bimodal rubber particle size distribution of grafted rubber the disclosure recognizes the problem of grafting relative large rubber particles and maintaining latex stability. the instability problem is overcome by first grafting the small rubber particles with a large surface area forming a stable latex to which the large rubber particles are added followed by grafting of the large rubber particles to form a stable latex of small and large rubber particles. the present invention relates to a process of grafting rubber particles, namely, 0.3 to 1.0 microns either as a monodisperse rubber particle system or a bimodal rubber particle size distribution of large rubber particles, e.g. 60% by weight of 0.35 microns and 408 by weight of 0.60 micron rubber particles in one step. the improved process produces a stable latex of relatively large grafted agglomerated rubber particles by a combination of low temperature agglomeration and low temperature redox grafting. such stable latices of relatively large agglomerated rubber particles have great utility. the grafted rubber particles can be recovered by dewatering the latex and drying the particles as a crumb for mixing with monovinylidene aromatic/ethylenically unsaturated nitrile polymers to form rubber reinforced abs polyblends. if grafted with an excess of said monomers, a polymer of said monomers is formed as a matrix phasetproviding an abs i;oly- blend during the emulsion grafting and polymerization step which can be dewatered and dried as an abs polyblend. such polyblends with relatively large rubber particles provide abs polyblends with superior toughness. summary of the invention the present invention relates to an improved process for preparing stable latices of large grafted diene rubber particles comprìsing: a. agglomerating a diene rubber latex having an average rubber particle
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims   what is claimed is:  1. an improved process for preparing stable latices of large grafted diene rubber particles comprising:  a. agglomerating a diene rubber latex  having an average rubber particle  size of about 0.01 to 0.20 microns  to rubber particles having an average  particle size of 0.3 to 1.0  microns by treating said rubber latex  with a water soluble organic acid  anhydride,  b. stabilizing said agglomerated diene  rubber particles with an emulsifying  agent forming a stable agglomerated  diene rubber latex,  c. grafting said agglomerated rubber par  ticles with a monomer formulation com  prising, monovinylidene aromatic and  ethylenically unsaturated nitrile mono    mers, 'the    improvement comprising: :  carrying out step (a) at temperatures  of 1 to 250c. and step (c) under graft  ing conditions such that the monomer  formulation is activated with a redox  catalyst system operating at tempera  tures of 35 to   500 c.    providing a grafted  agglomerated diene rubber latex essen  tially free of coagulated rubber par  ticles.    2. a process of claim 1 wherein said rubber particles have a bimodal particle size distribution wherein about 60 to 90% by weight of the rubber particles are 0.30 to 0.50 microns and 10 to 40% of the particles are 0.60 to 1.0 microns.      3. a process of claim 1 wherein said redox catalyst system has ion couples selected from the group consisting of   cu+/s208--/hs03-,      feµ+/s208¯¯/hso3¯,    cu+/t-butyl peracetate/ hs03-, fe++/t-butyl peracetate/hso3-, cu+/t-butyl perbenzo   ate/hso3-,    and fe++/t-butyl   perbenzoate/hso3-    or mixtures thereof.    4. a process of claim 1 wherein said ethylenically unsaturated nitrile monomer is acrylonitrile and said monovinylidene aromatic monomer is styrene and wherein the weight ratio of styrene to acrylonitrile used in grafting said rubber particles is about 80:20 to 60:40 respectively.    5. a process of claim 4 wherein the rubber particles are grafted with styrene/acrylonitrile monomers such that the weight ratio of graft styrene/acrylonitrile polymer to rubber is about 10 to 70 parts of polymer per 100 parts of rubber moiety.    6. a process of claim 1 wherein said diene rubber is selected from the group consisting of polybutadiene and copolymers of butadiene/styrene, butadiene/acrylonitrile, polychloroprene and mixtures thereof.    7. a process of claim 1 wherein said continuous agglomeration of said diene rubber latex in step (a) is carried out by mixing said latex with an organic acid anhydride, said latex having an emulsifying agent which is a salt of an organic acid with an ionization constant lower than the acid of the anhydride.    8. a process of claim 7 wherein said acid organic anhydride is selected from the group consisting of acetic acid anhydride, maleic acid anhydride and mixtures thereof.      9. a process of claim 7 wherein said acid anhydride is used in a molar amount at least equal to one-half the molar amount of said emulsifying agent contained in said latex.    10. a process of claim 1 wherein said agglomerated diene rubber latex is stabilized in step (b) with an acidstable emulsifying compound selected from the group consisting of nonionic organic and anionic organic and mixtures thereof in an amount sufficient to render said agglomerated latex stable for graft polymerization in step (c), said latex having a ph of about 3 to 6.    11. a process of claim 1 wherein said redox system is operating in an aqueous emulsion having a ph of about 3 to 6 stabilized with an acid-stable emulsifying agent present in an amount of about 0.3 to 1.5 parts per 100 parts of latex.    12. a process of claim 1 wherein step (c) grafting with said monomer formulation is carried out in the presence of a rubber phase having 60 to 90% by weight of rubber particles having a average particle size of 0.02 to 0.2 microns and 10 to   40%    by weight of said agglomerated rubber particles having a particle size of about 0.3 to 1.0 microns, said rubber particles, having a particle size of 0.02 to 0.20 microns, being added in step (c) as a latex stabilized with an acid stable emulsifying compound.    13. a process of claim 10 wherein said acid stable emulsifying compound is selected from the group consisting of sodium dodecyl diphenyl ether disulfonate, ethoxylated actyl phenol, sodium tridecyl ether sulfate.      14. an improved process for preparing stable latices of'large grafted diene rubber particles comprising:  a. agglomerating a diene   rubber      latex     having an average rubber particle  size of about 0.01 to 0.20 microns  to rubber particles having an average  particle size of about 0.3 to 1.0  microns by treating said rubber latex  with a water soluble organic acid  anhydride,  b. stabilizing said agglomerated diene  rubber particles with an emulsifying  agent forming a stable agglomerated  diene rubber latex,  c. grafting said agglomerated rubber par  ticles with a monomer formulation con  sisting essentially of styrene and  acrylonitrile monomers, the improvement  comprising:  carrying out step (a) at  temperatures of 1 to 250c. and step (c)  under grafting conditions such that the  monomer formulation is activated with  a redox catalyst system operating at  temperatures of 35 to 500c. providing  a grafted agglomerated diene rubber  latex essentially free of coagulated  rubber particles.      15. an improved process for preparing stable latices of large grafted diene rubber particles comprising:  a. agglomerating a diene rubber latex  having an average rubber particle  size of about 0.01 to 0.20 microns  to rubber particles having an average  particle size of about 0.3 to 1.0  microns by treating said rubber latex  with a water soluble organic acid  anhydride,  b. stabilizing said agglomerated diene  rubber particles with an emulsifying  agent forming a stable agglomerated  diene rubber latex,  c. grafting said agglomerated rubber par  ticles with a monomer formulation con  sisting essentially of styrene and  acrylonitrile monomers, the improvement  comprising:   carrying out step (a) at  temperatures of 1 to   25 c.    and step (c)  under grafting conditions such that the  monomer formulation is activated with  a redox catalyst system operating at  temperatures of 35 to   500 c.    providing  a grafted agglomerated diene rubber  latex essentially free of coagulated  rubber particles, wherein the weight  ratio of styrene to acrylonitrile mono  mers used in grafting said rubber par  ticles is-about 80:20 to 60:40, said  rubber particles being grafted with about  10 to 70 parts of said monomers per 100  parts of rubber   moiety.     
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
