<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0007208
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800123
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
H01H-75/00 H02H-3/093 H02H-6/00 H02H-3/44 <main>H02H-3/08</main> 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
a.c. power overload protection control.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
cutler hammer world trade incus <sep>cutler-hammer world trade, inc.<sep>eaton international corporation 4201 north 27th street milwaukee wisconsin 53216 us<sep>cutler-hammer world trade, inc.<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
bigelow james henry<sep>halbeck werner bart<sep>rutchik walter laurence<sep>bigelow, james henry<sep>halbeck, werner bart<sep>rutchik, walter laurence<sep>bigelow, james henry436 east fremont placemilwaukee, wisconsin 53207us<sep>halbeck, werner bart609 east cedar lanemequon, wisconsin 53209us<sep>rutchik, walter laurence6329 w. lloyd streetwauwatosa, wisconsin 53213us<sep>bigelow, james henry<sep>halbeck, werner bart  <sep>rutchik, walter laurence <sep>bigelow, james henry436 east fremont placemilwaukee, wisconsin 53207us<sep>halbeck, werner bart609 east cedar lanemequon, wisconsin 53209us<sep>rutchik, walter laurence6329 w. lloyd streetwauwatosa, wisconsin 53213us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a protective control system for an electric line system  supplying a load (l) comprises relay contacts (20a, 20b, 20c)  for connecting 3 phase lines, wired to terminals (a2, b2, c2) to  the load: rate sensing toroids (crs1, crs2, crs3) wound  around the terminal studs provide signals according to cur足 rent rates of change and detector module (dm) integrates  these to provide a signal according to the magnitude of cur足 rent in the system, and then modifies this signal to simulate  the thermal conditions of the power line system; the control  signal thus formed is used, if it exceeds a threshold, to cause  control module (cm) to trip the relay controlling contacts (20a,  20b, 20c).  the entire system is housed within a conventional  side relay housing with electronic circuits (cm, dm) on oppo足 site sides of the relay and with the toroids (crs1, crs2, crs3)  wound around the terminal studs, which are also of conven足 tional size and spacing.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
a. c. power overload pltotection control this invention relates to a protective power control system for protecting an a.c. electric power line system or its load against overload. overload current sensing electric controllers have been known heretofore. however, prior devices of this type have been of rather large size and weight. this is for the reason that the contactor or relay was enclosed in one housing and the tripping control circuit was enclosed in another housing which were separately attached to a mounting panel. the overload current transformer wound toroids were placed around the threephase load conductors and connected to the tripping control circuit and the latter was connected to the relay by electrical conductors. this not only involved large size and weight but also required a rather large amount of panel mounting space. while these prior devices have been useful for their intended purposes, this invention relates to improvements thereover. this invention provides a protective power control system for an electric power line system supplying a load, said protective power control system comprising a power switching device settable to connect electric power from the line to the load and being timely trippable to disconnect the electric power from the load to protect the line system from thermal damage in the event of an overload condition; operating means for said power switching device comprising detector means for providing an overload trip signal and control means, for the switching device, responsive to iaid overload trip signal for tripping said switching device; said detector means comprising thermal simulation means for providing a control signal having a magnitude simulating the thermal condition of the power line system and comprising sensor means for providing a first signal as a function of the rate of change of current in the power line system, integrator means responsive to said first signal for providing a second signal as a function of the magnitude of current in the power line system, and signal modification means responsive to said second signal for providing said control signal and varying its magnitude and duration to simulate the thermal condition of the power line system; said detector means also comprising means responsive to said control signal exceeding a predetermined value for providing said overload trip signal; and said control means for the power switching device comprising means responsive to said overload trip signal for tripping said power switching device. embodiments to be described form improved remote power controllers for remote control and protection of an electrical load. the controllers are of minimum physical size and integral construction. the controllers have predetermined overload current trip time characteristics affording optimum circuit protection. these embodiments of controllers provide an improved overload current trip function by incorporating electronic modules into a standard relay configuration thereby to provide an integral device having improved features of performance but of the same physical size and weight. the overload current trip function is provided with the combination of current rate of change sensing means and active integrating means in order
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:   i. a protective power control system for an electric power line system supplying a load, said protective power control system comprising a power switching device settable to connect electric power from the line to the load and being timely trippable to disconnect the electric power from the load to protect the line system from thermal damage in the event of an overload condition; operating means for said power switching device comprising detector means   (dm)    for providing an overload trip signal and control means (cm), for the switching device, responsive to said overload trip signal for tripping said switching device;  characterised by said detector means   (i)m)    comprising thermal simulation means (td) for providing a control signal having a magnitude simulating the   thermal    condition of the power line system and comprising sensor means   (cits1,      city2,      chs3)    for providing   a   first signal as a function of the rate of change of current in the power line system, integrator means   (oal,      oa2,    oa3) responsive to said first signal for providing a second signal as a function of the magnitude of current in the power line system and signal modification means (td)  responsive to said second signal for providing said control signal and varying its magnitude and duration to simulate the thermal condition of the power line system; said detector means also comprising means   (ova4)    responsive to said control signal exceeding a predetermined value for providing said overload trip signal; and said control means   (ce:)    for the power switching device comprising means responsive to said overload trip signal for tripping said power switching device.   2. a protective power control system as claimed  in claim 1, wherein said power switching device comprises terminal studs (a2,   u2,    c2) for connection to the power line system and said sensor means comprises at least one rate sensing wound toroid   (clls1,      city2,      c1(s3)    around one of said studs for providing a voltage proportional to the rate of change of current in the corresponding portion of the power line system as said first signal.   3. a protective power control system as claimed in claim 2, wherein said power switching device comprises a conventional size relay and said rate sensing wound toroid is small enough so that it fits around said stud of said conventional size relay, without requiring enlargement of the space thereat.   4. a protective power control system as claimed in claim 3, wherein said relay also comprises a housing (36) for said relay1 said terminal studs extending through said housing for connecting said relay and its said operating means to external circuits including power line terminal studs having conventional relay stud spacing.   5. a protective power control system as claimed in claim 4, wherein said housing is provided with sealing means (46) around said terminal studs to hermetically seal the inside of said housing from the outside.   6. a protective power control system as   claimed    in claim 4 or 5, wherein: said detector means   (dn)    and said control means (cm) are a pair of modules situate alongside said relay within said housing connected to said relay and said studs therewithin to provide an integral unit.   7. a protective power control   system    as claimed  in claim 1,   iso    comprising a switch means   (sal)    connected to said control means; said control means also comprising means responsive to operation of said switch means to selectively set or trip said power switching device.      8.    a protective power control system as claimed in claim   i,    also comprising a turn-on, turn-off switch connected to said control means and said control means also comprising means responsive to closure of said turnon, turn-off switch for setting said power switching device and responsive to re-opening of said turn-on, turn-off switch for tripping said power switching device, and being further responsive to opening and reclosing of said turn-on, turn-off switch after said power switch device has been tripped by an overload condition for resetting said power switching device.   9. a protective power control system as claimed in claim 1, also comprising a turn-on switch means and reset lockout twitch means connected to said control means; said control means also comprising means responsive to operation of said turn-on switch means for setting said power switching device and means preventing resetting of said power switching device in response to said operation of said turn-on switch following tripping thereof whereby such reset is locked out but being responsive to operation of both said reset lockout switch and said turn-on switch for resetting said power switching device following tripping thereof.   10. a protective power control system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said control means   n)so    comprises a dual four-input digital multiplexer type logic circuit (ic2) for controlling setting and tripping of  said power switching device under the proper combinations of control, overload and system state signals.   11. a protective power control system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said power switching device comprises a latching relay having a set coil (s) operable when energized to connect the electric power to said load, a trip coil (t) operable when energized to disconnect said electric power from said load, and latching means for maintaining said relay in either its set or tripped condition.   12. a protective power control system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said signal modification means comprises an rc time delay network (r14,   r15,    c7) having a charge rate and a discharge rate calculated to simulate the heating and cooling rates of said power line or load that is being protected.   13. a protective power control system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said power switching device is a three-pole device which is enclosed, with said control means, in a housing (36) having a plurality of external terminal studs including three power terminal studs (a2, b2, c2), said sensor means comprises wound toroids   (chs1,      cils2,    crs3) situated around the respective power   terminal    studs to couple the same to the three phases of said supply line,  and said operating means and detector means being electronic circuits enclosed in plastic moulding material to provide a pair of modules shaped to fit   within    said housing   alongside    said threepole power switching device and   connected    thereto and to said terminal studs within said   housing    to provide a single unitary protective device.   14. a protective power control system as claimed  in claim 1 or 13, wherein said operating   gleans      comprises a digital logic solid state clement -(i2)    for performing boolean functions whereby setting   and    tripping of said power switching device is controlled only under the proper combinations of circuit states.   15. a protective power control system as claimed in claim 14, wherein said power switching device is an electromagnetic latching relay having a set coil (s) and a trip ceil (t), power contacts and a cutthroat contact (ct) in series connection with said trip coil and said operating means also comprises means including said digital logic element for deenergizing said set coil following setting and latching of said relay thereby to eliminate the need for the cutthroat contacts in series with said set coil provided in prior art devices.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
