<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0015068
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800903
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<main>G01N-21/37</main> G01N-21/59 G01N-21/31 G01N-21/61 G01N-21/37 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
non-dispersive infrared analyzers.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
beckman instruments incus<sep>beckman instruments, inc.<sep>beckman instruments, inc.executive office 2500 harbor boulevard box 3100 fullerton california 92634us<sep>beckman instruments, inc.<sep>beckman instruments, inc.<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
cederstrand carl nelson <sep>keenan charles albert<sep>warnke dale franklin<sep>cederstrand, carl nelson<sep>keenan, charles albert<sep>warnke, dale franklin<sep>cederstrand, carl nelson944 east redbud streetbrea, california 92621us<sep>keenan, charles albert18792 via veronairvine, california 92715us<sep>warnke, dale franklin187 explanadeirvine, california 92715us<sep>cederstrand, carl nelson<sep>keenan, charles albert<sep>warnke, dale franklin<sep>cederstrand, carl nelson<sep>keenan, charles albert <sep>warnke, dale franklin  <sep>cederstrand, carl nelson944 east redbud streetbrea, california 92621us<sep>keenan, charles albert18792 via veronairvine, california 92715us<sep>warnke, dale franklin187 explanadeirvine, california 92715us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a method and apparatus (9) is disclosed for selectively  determining by non-dispersive infrared techniques, using a  pneumatic detector (14,20,22), the concentration of a gaseous  constituent in a sample gasmixture.  measurement effects of  interfering gases in the gasmixture are discounted by detecting  infrared energy absorbed by such interfering gases by  means of selective filter means (32,33) and solid state detectors  (30,31) within the sample cell (12b), and by a processing  circuit (36) comprising scaling means (112,142) and summing  circuit (64).  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
nethod mb apparatus for negating measurem ic effects of interferent gss in non-dispersive infrared analyerrs background of the invention the present invention relates to a method and apparatus for increasing accuracy in non-dispersive infrared analyzer systems for determining the concentration of a preselected gas in a homogeneous sample gas of spectrally overlapping constituents, and more particularly to a method and apparatus for determining the concentration of an interferent gas and removing its effect on the measurement of a preselected constituent gas in a gas sample. prior art has disclosed many methods and apparatus for measuring concentration content of a preselected component in a sample gas, the most spectrally specific of which is a non-dispersive infrared analyzer utilizing a pneumatic detector. while pneumatic detectors charged with tk:e component of interest will give generally accurate indications of the concentration of the selected component, a problem is many times encountered where cther gas components present in the sample stream have absorption bands which either overlap or lie within the major absorption band of the selected components. for example, carbon dioxide has an infrared absorption band which overlaps the major infrared absorption band of carbon monoxide while water vapor has a minor absorption band which lies within the major absorption band of carbon monoxide. thus, these gases, when present, interfere with the measurement of carbon monoxide by non-dispersive infrared techniques in order to compensate for the infrared energy absorbed by water vapor and carbon dioxide, prior art has used addltfflonal pneumatic detectors specifically sensitized to determine the concentration of carbon dioxide and/or water vapor and in turn s'ibtract the effect of these concentrations froin the concentration measured bv the carbon monoxide detector. this solution to the problem results in a very complex, bulky, and expensive carbon monoxide detectors for testing the sample gas. in order to accurately measure the concentration of a gas such as carton monoxide, an additional pneumatic detector is required for each interferent to ne measured, resulting ost ost of a detector to measure one it is the@@@ @sent invention to provide a simple dual beam, infrared analyzer utilizing 2 single pneumatic dete@@@ which measures the component concentration in a sample aes wit increased accuracy. it is another object of the present invention to provide an inexpensive accurate measurement of a component gas in a sample gas stream. it is a further object of the present invention te provide a gas concentration analyzer which has a high degree of accuracy. summarv of the invention the foregoing objects are satisfied and the foregoing deficiencies are overcome by the present invention which comprises solid state detectors disposed within the sample cell of a dual-beam, non-dispersive infrared analyzer utilizing a pneumatic detector. these solid state detectors are situated behind narrow band filters which pass infrared radiation of a wavelength corresponding to the wavelength oi interfering species which is different from the wavelength of the infrared waves absorbed by the constituent gas to be measured. tne energy incident upon te solid state detectors is converted
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:    1. in a non-dispersive infrared analyzer (9) having a pneumatic detector   (14a,    14b, 22, 20) measuring the concentration of a preselected component gas by infrared energy absorption and producing a first signal representing component concentration, apparatus for negating the measurement effects of interferent gases characterized by: :  response means (30, 31) responsive to infrared energy for detecting the infrared energy absorbed by an interferent gas which absorbs infrared energy in the bandwidth of said preselected component gas and producing a second signal in response thereto;  filter means (32, 33) associated with said response means for permitting passage of an infrared bandwidth absorbed by said interferent gases while rejecting infrared bandwidths absorbed by said preselected component gas;  rectifier means (92, 122) connected to said response means for receiving said second signal and producing a substantially rectified third signal;  scaling means (112, 142) connected to said rectifier means for receiving said third signal and scaling said third signal to be compatible with said first signal;  and  combining means (64) connected to said scaling means and said pneumatic gas analyzer for combining said scaled third signal and said first signal and producing an output representative of said preselected component gas.    2. the apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said response means (30, 31) is characterized by a pyroelectric sensor.    3. the apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said response means (30, 31) is characterized by a black body detector.      4. the apparatus of claim 2 or 3 wherein said filter means (32, 33) is characterized by an interference filter on a quartz substrate responsive to a bandwidth of wavelengths having its center wavelength at 2.7 microns.      5.    the apparatus of claims 2 or 3 wherein said filter means (32, 33) is characterized by an interference filter on a quartz substrate responsive to a bandwidth of wavelengths having its center wavelength at 2.6 microns.    6. the apparatus according to claims 2 or 3 wnerein said rectifier means   (92,    122) is characterized   b    a synchronous rectifier.    7. a method for increasing accuracy in a system having a   non-dispersinre    infrared analyzer (9) with a pneumatic detector (20, 22) for measuring the concentration of a preselected component gas by infrared energy absorption and producing a first signal representing component concentration, said method characterized by the steps of: :  permitting passage of an infrared bandwidth (32, 33) absorbed by an interferent gas to be incident upon a detector while rejecting infrared bandwidths absorbed by said preselected component gas;  detecting the infrared energy (30, 31) absorbed by said interferent gas which absorbs infrared heat energy in the bandwidth of said preselected component gas and producing a second signal in response thereto;  receiving said second signal and producing a substantially rectified third signal;  receiving said third signal and scaling said third signal to be compatible with said first signal; and  combining said third signal and said first signal (64) to provide an output representative of said preselected component gas.      8. the method of claim 7 characterized by the additional steps of detecting the infrared energy absorbed by a second interferent gas which absorbs infrared energy in the bandwidth of said preselected component gas and producing a fourth signal in response thereto;  permitting passage of an infrared bandwidth absorbed by said second interferent gas while rejecting infrared bandwidths absorbed by said preselected component gas;  receiving said fourth signal and producing a substantially rectified fifth signal;  receiving said fifth signal and scaling said fifth signal to be compatible with said first signal; and  combining said fifth signal with said scaled third signal and said first signal and producing an output representative of said preselected component gas.    9. in a nondispersive infrared analyzer for measuring the quantity of a preselected component gas with spectrally interferring component gases, an apparatus for negating effects of interferent gases characterized by:  first means (20, 22) for measuring said quantity of said preselected component gas with said effects of said interferent gases and producing a first output representative thereof;  solid state detector (30, 31) for measuring said effects of said interferent gases and producing a second output representative thereof; and  second means (64) for combining said first output and said second output and producing a signal representative of said quantity of said preselected component gas.      10. the apparatus of claim 9 wherein said second means   (64)    characterized by a process circuit   include.    a rectifier, (92, 122) and scaler (112, 142)   associated    therewith.    11. the apparatus of claim   20    wherein said solid state detector (30, 31) is characterized by a pyroelectric sensor.      12.    the apparatus of claim 10 wherein said solid state detector   (30,    31) is characterized by a black body detector.    13. the apparatus of claim 10 wherein said process circuit also is characterized by a linearization circuit   (138).       14. in a dual-beam infrared radiant energy   analyzer of the type e having a reference (12a) and    sample (12b) radiation path and a pneumatic detector (20,   22j    sensitized to detect radiation absorbed by gas of interest in a firs-t selected wavelength region (a-b) and   producing    a detector signal proportional to the   concentration    of said gas of interest plus any interferent   cas    present in the sample having an absorption band in said first selected wavelength region (a-b), the   improvem,ent    characterized by: :  filter means (32) disposed in said sample radiation path (12b), said filter means (32) having a narrow infrared radiant energy band pass in a second   wavelength    region (c-d) where said interferent gas also has an absorption band and said constituent gas has no   appreciable    absorption band;  solid state detector means (30) disposed adjacent said filter means   (32i    and producing an electrical   signal    proportional to the concentration of said interferent gas; and  circuit means (36) connected to said pneumatic detector and to said solid state detector means for  producing an output signal proportional to said constituent gas.      15.    the infrared radiant energy analyzer according to claim 14 further characterized by:  second filter means (33) disposed in said sample radiation path, said second filter means (33) having a narrow, infrared radiant energy band pass in a third region (e-f) where a second interferent gas has an absorption band and said constituent gas has no appreciable absorption band;  second solid state detector means (31) disposed adjacent said second filter means (33) and producing a second electrical signal proportional to the concentration of said second interferent gas; and  means (35) for connecting said second solid state detector means to said circuit means (36) whereby said circuit means (36) produces an output signal proportional to said constituent gas.     16. the infrared radiant energy analyzer according to claim 15 characterized by said first filter means (32) has a bandwidth with a center point of   2.694    microns and a bandwidth of .04 microns.    17. the infrared radiant energy analyzer according to claim 16 characterized by said second filter means (33) has a bandwidth having a center point of 2.6 microns with a bandwidth of .03 microns.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
