<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0005314
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19791114
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
E05D-15/00 E05D-15/06 E06B-3/46 E05D-15/58 E05D-15/10 E05D-15/08 E06B-3/32 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
improvements in sliding doors.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
g h sanderson nominees pty ltdau<sep>g.h. sanderson nominees pty. ltd<sep>g.h. sanderson nominees pty. ltd8 station streetringwood victoriaau<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
sanderson george henryau<sep>sanderson, george henry<sep>sanderson, george henry1326 mountain highwaythe basin victoriaau<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a sliding doors assembly in which at least two panels  (17, 17′) can be located in tracks (14, 15) in track assemblies  (13) and can move from track to track through cut-outs  (16) or which are located on various other profiles or  ramps (44, 45) and have by-pass members 70 on their rear  faces so that adjacent panels by compression of their support  means (60) can be caused to move up an inclined  plane (47) to pass behind an adjacent panel with the only  contact being the by-pass members (70) against the face  of the panel higher on the inclined plane (47).  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
improvements in doors this invention relates to improvements in doors and more particularly tc improvements in sliding doors. sliding doors are used for many purposes from small cupboards, to wardrobes, to external doors, to doors swanning wide distances, such as in garages and doors which can occupy the whole side of a building, as in a produce store or a bond store. normally the arrangement of sliding doors has been in one of several ways. where there are only two doors they are conventionally on different tracks so that either door can be slid across or behind, the face of the other door. where there are three doors, such as in a common type of wardrobe, there are normally two tracks and the centre -door is on the front track and the other two doors are on the rear track. in this arrangement the central portion of the wardrobe can be moved to either side enabling access to the centre of the wardrobe and either of the outer doors can be slid inwardly to a position behind the centre door. where wide spans are required and particularly where the whole of the area, or any part of the area, may need to be exposed, it is conventional to provide as many tracks as there are door components so any individual door member can be moved, at least in one direction, to expose the area occupied by the door. in such arrangements the track lengths normally vary and the doors can slide to the inner ends of their tracks to reach their closed condition and each of the tracks terminate at the same position at their outer ends so tha; when the area is fully exposed the door panels are located one behind the other. all such arrangements have difficulties. firstly, in every arrangement the door panels, when the door is closed, terminate at different levels and this, asthetically, is not pleasing. secondly, it is difficult to make a permanent seal between panels as there must be some form of rubbing seal, at least close to the end of the movement of the door. in indoor and furniture applications such seals are undesirable as they tend to mar the surface of the piece of furniture. thirdly, where multiple door panels are being used, there is the expense of having a large number of tracks and the effective further expense caused by the encroachment of the tracks into the area to which the door is fitted. it is an object of the present invertion to provide a sliding door in which these disadvantages are obviated or minimised. it is a further object to provide sliding door assemblies which are relatively cheap to manufacture, which can readily be fitted and which can operate satisfactorily for substantial periods of time. the invention includes a sliding. door having at least two panels and a pair of parallel track assemblies at both the top and the bottom of the opening into which the panels are to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
   claims      1. a sliding door having at least two panels (17,17') and a pair of parallel track assemblies (13) at both the top and the bottom of the opening into which the panels are to be located, low friction means (19) associated with, at least,   tiw--    lower edge of each door panel, which means are adapted to be received in the track assemblies (13) and which extend below the lower extremity of each panel, and means (16) whereby the panel can be moved transversely across the track assemblies.   2. a door as claimed in claim 1 wherein there are cutouts (16) between the two tracks   c14,l5)    in the track assemblies (13) which cutouts have a depth substantially equal to the depth of the track which cutouts are spaced at distances equal to the spacing of the low friction means (19).   3. a door as claimed in claim 2 wherein there are low friction means (20) on the upper edge of each panel   (17)    4. a door as claimed in claim 2 wherein the cutouts (16) are so located that each panel can be moved to one track and when so moved, they abut and close the opening.   5. a door as claimed in claim 1 wherein the low friction means (20) on at least one edge of the door are sprung (25) and the portion of the track assembly between the two tracks is so shaped as to permit the door to ride over this portion from one track (31) to the other (32).   6. a door as claimed in claim 5 wherein the portion between the two tracks is arcuate or of saw-tooth form.   7. a door as claimed in claim 1 wherein there is provided a longitudinal stem (96) extending through a slot in the track assembly, (95) the stem being spring loaded (98) so that, on contact by the low friction means it can be displaced downwardly to permit a door panel to move thereover.   8. a door as claimed in claim 1 wherein the door panels can be displaced longitudinally so the   low'    friction means (19,20) are displaced from the cutouts (16) to thereby prevent transverse movement of the panels.   9. a door as claimed in claim 8 wherein there is a moveable stop at one side of the door and a lockable stop at the other.      10.    a door as claimed in claim 1 wherein at least  one door panel (100) has a central extension at its top and bottom edges which enter a track and two low friction means (104), one on either side, and wherein the cutouts (16) are extended (102,103) to enable rotation of the panel about the central extension.   11. a door as claimed in claim 1 wherein the track assemblies (44) are each in the form of an inclined plane having means whereby it can be fixed to the opening, the planes being inclined to form an opening of maximum height at the front of the door and with the height being restricted at the rear of the door opening, low friction means (48) at the lower edges of the panels, spring loaded low friction means (60) at the upper edges of the panels and spacers (70) on the rear of each panel and being so arranged as to ensure that contact between panels is restricted to contact between the spacers (70) and the face of the adjacent panel.   12. a door as claimed in claim 11 wherein the low friction means (48) at the lower edges of the panels are connected to the rear of the panels and comprise a body, (49) a leg (52) extending from the body which leg has a low friction means (54) on its lower end, the leg and body having co-acting parts   (5jar,56)    whereby the extension of the leg can be varied.   13. a door as claimed in claim 12 wherein the leg has serrations (55) on one surface which can co-act with serrations (56) on the body, the arrangement being that when the two members (49,52) interengage and the body is fitted to the panel the length of the extension is fixed.   14. a door as claimed in claim 11 wherein the low friction means (60) at the upper edges of the panels are connected to the rear of the panels and comprise a body (61), an arm   (63)    extending from the body, which arm has a low friction means (65) on its lower end, the arm and body being interconnected by a compression spring (67) whereby the arm is biased outwardly from the body.   15. a door as claimed in claim 11 wherein the spacers (70) are low friction means extending rearwardly from the rear of the panels for a distance greater than the extension of any other part of the door.      16    a door as claimed in claim 15 wherein the spacers  are rollers (71) adapted to be fitted to the panels.   17. a door as claimed in claim 16 wherein the rollers (75) are fitted along a   strip (77)    adapted to be fitted to the rear of a door panel.      18.    a door as claimed in claim 11 wherein at least   the    lower track (80) has adjacent its outer end a longitudinal upward return (81) of such dimension as to   retain-    the low friction means and to provide them with a running surface whilst restraining them from reaching the front of the track.   19. a door as claimed in claim 18 wherein there is an upward flange (82) at the front of the track (80)and wherein the door, when in its forward position, terminates behind this.      24.    a sliding door as claimed in claim 1 wherein each panel has a roller   (90)    or rollers extending longitudinally under its lower edge and the lower track (93) is in the form of an outwardly and downwardly directed inclined plane having a plurality of rollers (92) transverse to the longitudinal axis and extending across the width of the track, the rollers (92) having a spacing such as to stably receive the roller(s) (90) of each panel.    21. a sliding door as claimed in claim 11 wherein means are provided to lock the panels when they lie in a single plane.   22. a sliding door as claimed in claim 21 wherein the means comprises moving the panels together and preventing movement of one end panel.   23. a sliding door as claimed in claim 11 wherein the side edges of the panels are formed to interengage and each panel is provided with a locking means so if it should be an end panel it can be retained in position to restrain movement by the other panels.   24. a sliding door as claimed in claim 1 wherein the width of the track is sufficient to receive a plurality of door panels, one behind the other.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
