<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0006646
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800109
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
A23F-5/44 A23F-5/40 A23F-5/24 A23F-5/00 A23F-5/48 A23F-5/46 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
method for preparing an improved coffee-like instant coffee-grain beverage.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
procter & gambleus<sep>the procter & gamble company<sep>the procter &amp; gamble company301 east sixth streetcincinnati ohio 45202us<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
strobel rudolf gottfried karlus<sep>strobel, rudolf gottfried karl<sep>strobel, rudolf gottfried karl7305 thompson roadcincinnati, ohio 45247us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
an improved coffee-like instant coffee-grain dry  beverage mix having an orthodox coffee flavor, taste and  aroma is made from 15 to 98 wt.  % refined grain extract  powder.  0 to 84 wt.  % coffee base extract powder, and from  about 0. 05 to about 3 wt.  % of cryogenically collected  coffee aroma-flavor compounds.  this dry mix provides a  beverage which smells and tastes like real coffee, and in its  preferred embodiment is surprisingly as acceptable or  superior as a "coffee" beverage to coffee drinkers as  leading 100% instant coffees.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
improved coffee-iike instant coffeecrain bevep9ge the history of the use of coffee substitutes is probably as old as the use of coffee itself. reasons for their use include (1) lower cost where the substitute material may be substantially cheaper than coffee, (2) lack of availability due te political crisis, weather problems in the producing countries, etc., and (3) caffeine control. numerous coffee substitutes have been sold in europe for quite some time and since the recent frost in brazil several new coffee substitutes have been introduced in america. one of the leading coffee substitutes comprises chicory and coffee base. another leading coffee substitute comprises wheat, bran, molasses and coffee base. although such coffee substitutes have found some acceptance, most real coffee drinkers will bear witness that such coffee substitutes do not smell or taste like real coffee and are not as acceptable as 100% real coffee. u.s. patent no. 3,997,685, december 14, 1976, to rudolf g.k. strobel, discloses adding a coffee flavor/aroma frost to cereal solids to make a coffeelike product. this patent, however, does not teach the use of refined or deflavored cereal extract solids. it is an object of the present invention to provide the consumer with a coffee-grain beverage mix which smells and tistcs like 100i real coffee. it is another object of the present invention to provide a method of making a coffee-grain beverage mix which smells and tastes like 1002 real coffee. yet another object of the present invention is to provide a coffee-like coffee-grain beverage mix which is as acceptable to real coffee drinkers as real coffee itself. su'a'aary of the invention an improved coffee-like instant coffee-grain beverage mix having an orthodox coffee flavor, taste, and aroma is made from 15-98 wt. % refined grain extract, 0-84 wt. % coffee base extract, and from 0.05 to about 3.0 wt. % of cryogenically collected coffee aroma-flavor compounds. the refined grain extract is refined by separating characteristic grainy flavor and aroma constituents from the grain or from an aqueous grain extract. the coffee aroma flavor compounds are prepared by collecting low-temperature vacuum steam-stripped or desorbed coffee aroma and flavor volatiles as a frost by condensation at a cryogenic temperature and an absolute pressure of from about 0.1 to about 200 mm of mercury. an improved coffee-like instant coffee-grain beverage mix comprising the refined grain extract, the coffee aroma-flavor compounds and a coffee base in the said amounts provides a beverage which smells and tastes like real coffee and in its preferred compositions is surprisingly as acceptable as coffee to real coffee drinkers as the leading 100% instant coffees. detailed description of the invention the present invention provides an improved coffee-lie instant coffee grain beverage mix having an orthodox coffee aroma and flavor. a beverage made with the mix of this invention is more satisfying to coffee drinkers than previous coffee substitutes. the invention attains 'chis result from a novel combination of: inrcdi.ents. spccifical), high cjuality coffee aroma-flavor comt,ounds are combined with a refined grain extract and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
   what    is claimed is:   1. a   coffee-lke    instant coffee-grain dry beverage mix characterised by from 15 to 98 wt. % of refined grain extract, from 0 to 84 wt. % of coffee base extract, and from 0.05 to 3.0   wt.      t    of cryogenically collected aroma-flavor compounds.   2. a beverage mix according to claim 1 characterised by from 15 to 80 wt.   %    of said refined grain extract and from 2 to 60   wt.      %    of said coffee base extract and from   l    to 20 wt. % of a concentrate of said aromaflavor compounds.   3. a method for preparing the instant coffee-grain dry mix of claim 1 or 2 characterised in that said refined grain extract is prepared by:  (a) distilling and separating grainy flavor and  aroma constituents from an aqueous extract  of roast and ground grain, said grain  extract having an initial soluble solids  content of at least 5%;  (b) concentrating said grain extract to 20% to  60% solids; and  (c) drying said concentrated grain extract.   4. a method according to claim 3 characterised in that said distilling, separation, and concentrating of said grain extract is accomplished by flash evaporation.   5. a method according to claim 3 or 4 characterised in that said aqueous grain extract is obtained. by process steps comprising:  (a) slowly passing wet steam through a zone con  taining roasted and ground grain in such a  manner which avoids flooding of said zone and  while said zone is held at an absolute pressure  of from   o.lmm    to 200mm of mercury, thereby  to provide a continually moving interface between  dry and wetted particles of said roast and  ground grain;    (b) prior to the reaching of said moving interface  to the end of said zone and the emergence of  said aqueous grain extract from said zone,  expelling a steam fraction containing  objectionable grainy aroma and flavor bodies  removed from said roast and ground grain.   6. a method according to any of claims 3 to 5 characterised in that said refined grain extract is prepared from roast and ground grain selected from malted barley, barley, rye, wheat, corn, chicory and soybeans.   7. a method according to any of claims 3 to 6 characterised in that said refined extract is refined by a process comprising: passing steam through an aqueous solution containing up to 50% grain extract solids; said steam removing objectionable grainy flavor bodies therefrom.   8. a method according to any of claims 3 to 7 characterised in that said grain is made from roasted malted barley having a color about 65 to 95 photovolts.   9. a method according to any of claims 3 to 8 characterised by:  (a) steam stripping roast and ground coffee at a  temperature below   100 c    and a pressure of  below   200mm    of mercury; collecting steam  stripped coffee aroma flavor volatile  compounds as a frost by condensation at a  temperature of below -73 c and at an  absolute pressure of from 0.1 to 200mm  mercury; melting the frost by contacting  the frost with a sufficient amount of an  aqueous extract having a soluble solids  content of from 25% to 65%, said extract  being selected from the group consisting of  extracts of coffee or grain; and drying  said aroma-flavor compounds in an aroma-flavor  concentrate;  and    (b) adding said aroma-flavor concentrate to said  refined grain extract powder to provide said  coffee aroma-flavor compounds at a level of  from 0.05   wt.    % to 3.0 wt.   %      in    said coffee  grain beverage mix.   10. a method according to claim 9 characterised in that the steam   stripping-step    comprises:  (a) pulsing or slowly passing water and wet steam  through a zone containing roasted and ground  coffee in such a manner which avoids flooding  of said zone and while said zone is held at  a temperature below   1000c    and at an absolute  pressure of from about   o.lmm    to 200mm of  mercury, thereby to provide a continually  moving interface between dry and wetted  particles of said roast and ground coffee;  and  (b) prior to the reaching of said moving interface  to the end of said zone and the emergence of  a liquid extract from said zone, collecting  said steam stripped coffee aroma-flavor  volatile compounds as a frost by condensation  at a temperature of below about -   73 0c    and at  an absolute pressure of from about 0.1 to about  200mm of mercury.   11. a method according to any of claims 3 to 8 characterised by said coffee-aroma compounds being prepared by a process comprising pulsing or continuously passing wet steam into a zone containing said roasted and ground coffee in a manner which avoids flooding said zone and while said zone is held at an absolute pressure of from   o.lmm    to   200mm    of mercury, thereby providing continuously moving interface between dry and wetted particles of said roast and ground coffee;  prior to the reaching of said moving interface to the end of said zone and the emergence of an aqueous coffee base extract from said zone, collecting a coffee aroma- and flavor-containing frost  fraction by condensing   aroma    flavor volatile compounds removed   from    said roast and ground coffee at a temperature   of      fron      act      -2o0c    to -   2000c; ;    thereafter melting said aroma- and flavor-containing frost fraction with an aqueous   extract    containing   water-sclulnle    solids selected from the group consisting of proteins and carbohydrates, combining said frost fraction with said aqueous extract at a temperature below about   soc    in a closed container   which    has been purged with inert gas and which contains no air space surrounding said mixture; freezing said mixture with agitation at a temperature in the range of from about   -4 c    to   -200  >     to provide a frozen mixture wherein the ice crystals exceed 1000 microns;   cornrrinuting    the resultant frozen mixture to a particle size of from about 500 to 2000 microns; and freeze-drying said particles.    12. a method according to claim 11 characterised in that said roasted and ground coffee, prior to loading into said zone, is cooled to a temperature below the melting point of ice and mixed with finely ground ice (h20), said mix being maintained in a melt-free state until said wet steam is passed there-through.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
