<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0007150
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800123
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B05B-12/00 A01G-25/09 A01G-25/00 B05B-17/00 B05B-12/02 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
land irrigation apparatus and method.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
noble allen t<sep>allen t. noble.<sep>allen t. noble.post office box 1201 boise idaho 82701us<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
allen t noble <sep>allen t. noble.<sep>allen t. noble.post office box 1201boise idaho 82701us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a land irrigation apparatus in which a continuously or  near continuously traveling sprinkler line (25) is continuously  supplied with water through a spaced risers (34) from a  stationary water supply conduit (33) extending in the direction  of the movement of the sprinkler line.  a conveyance (36)  moves along the water supply conduit, the conveyance carry­ ing a rotating water manifold (45) with a plurality of water  carrying arms (41, 42, 43) extending radially from the man­ ifold in angularly spaced relation to each other for successive  connection to water outlet valves (35) on the risers as the  conveyance moves along the water supply conduit.  the water  outlet from the water manifold is connected to the water inlet  (51) of the sprinkler line through a water conduit (47, 104)  having a swivel joint (49) whereby the water manifold and  water carrying arms can rotate relative to the inlet of the  sprinkler line.  the water inlet end of each water carrying arm  has a coupling device (52, 53, 54) for coupling with the water  outlet valve of a riser and for opening and closing the riser  water outlet valve.  co-ordinating means (80) act to close the  riser water outlet valve and uncouple the arm coupling device  from one riser when another arm coupling device has coupled  with another riser and opened the water outlet valve of that  riser.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
desoripiti0t3. ntaejd irrigation systedi and method". this invention is for use in connection with a land irrigating system in which a moving water sprinkler means having water inlet means at one point extends laterally to and moves along the length dimension of a stationary water supply means having a plurality of water outlet valve means at equally spaced points along. the length thereof and involves an apparatus for successively connecting water outlet valve means of the stationary water supply means with water inlet means of the sprinkler means comprising conveyance means for moving along the length dimension of the stationary water supply means at the sane overall rate of movement as the moving sprinkler means. this invention is also for use in connection with a method of land irrigation wherein a moving sprinkler means having a water inlet means at one point moves along the length of a stationary water supply means having a plurality of water outlet valve means at spaced intervals along the length thereof, the method involving successively connecting water outlet valve means of the stationary water supply means with water inlet means of the sprinkler means to obtain substantially continucus water supply to the sprinkler means. when irrigating extensive areas of land, long sprinkler lines have been used for some time. water has been supplied to these lines from buried pipes called main lines with spaced risers projecting above the surface of the ground for connection to the sprinkler lines. each time a sprinkler line had to be moved, manual labour was required for this purpose. this was a laborious and time consuming operation. as time went on, the sprinkler lines, which can reach a length of a quarter of a mile and more were fitted with wheels to make them easier to move. eventually, power was supplied in one way or another to the wheeled lines to keep them moving slowly along the desired path parallel to the direction of the main line with flexible hoses extending between the water inlet end of the sprinkler lines and the riser to which the sprinkler line was connected. since the main line can be eight or more inches in diameter with the water pressure in the main line high, the required size and strength of the flexible hoses became extremely burdensome in manual operation. proposals were therefore made to facilitate connection of the sprinkling lines to successive risers with the least manual effort but to applicant's knowledge no successful machine has been developed prior to his. three examples of such proposals are illustrated in angel united states patent 2,740,228, stafford united states reissue patent 26,285 and smith et al. united states patents 3,381,893 and 3,446,434. such proposals provided for intermittent connection of the sprinkler line to the main line utilizing power assisted mechanical devices as the hoses or telescoping pipes were moved from riser to riser, with the sprinkler line continuing to move along at the desired rate. in order to provide for a continual source of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
    claiits       1. apparatus for use in connection with a land irrigating system, comprising a moving water sprinkler means,   having water    inlet means at one point, extending laterally to and moving along the length dimension of a stationary water supply means'of the irrigation system having a plurality of water outlet valve means at equally spaced points along the length thereof, and means for connecting water outlet valve means of the stationary water supply means with the water inlet means of the sprinkler means, comprising conveyance means for moving along the length dimension of the stationary water supply means at the same overall rate of movement as the moving water sprinkler means, the apparatus being characterised by:  rotatable water receiving conduit junction means (45) carried by the conveyance means (36,36') having water outlet means (46) and water inlet means (44), an elongated water conduit means (41) (41'), the length of the elongated water conduit means being not substantially less than one half the distance between adjacent water outlet valve means (35, 35') but substantially less than the distance between adjacent water outlet valve means (35,   35'),    water outlet means (117) associated with the end portion of the elongated water conduit means (41, 41') nearest the water conduit junction means, means (116) associated with the water outlet means (117) of the elongated water conduit means for connecting the water outlet means of the elongated  water conduit means to conduct water to a water inlet means of the water receiving conduit junction means (45),  water flow control valve means (170) for opening and closing the elongated water conduit means, connecting means (52) (52') associated with the other end portion of the elongated conduit means for successive water flow connection and disconnection with the water outlet valve means (35, 35') on the stationary water supply means, means (207, 208, 209, 211, 212) associated with the connecting means for rotatable connecting the connecting means in water flow connection relation with a water outlet valve means   (35,    35') for rotation of the elongated conduit means around the water outlet valve means, means (47, 49) supporting the water receiving conduit junction means and the elongated water conduit means for rotational movement around a water outlet valve means, and water conduit means (47, 49, 76)  for rotatably connecting the water outlet means of the water receiving conduit junction means and the inlet means (51) of the water sprinkler means (25, 25') for water flow from the water receiving conduit junction means to the water sprinkler means water inlet means (51).    2. apparatus as claimed in claim   7    characterised in that there are a plurality of elongated water conduit means (41, 42, 43) (41', 42') radially disposed relative to the water receiving conduit junction means.    3. apparatus as claimed in claim 1 or 2 characterised in that movable support means (112) are carried by the conveyance means for supporting the water receiving conduit junction means for movement relative to the conveyance means toward and away from the water supply means between a position of the water receiving conduit junction means closest to the water supply means when the conveyance means is far from any one of the plurality of water outlet valve means and a  position of the water receiving conduit junction means farthest from the water supply means when the conveyance means is close to any one of the plurality of water outlet valve means.    4. apparatus as claimed in claim 3 characterised in that means (114) are provided for supporting the movable support means (112) for straight line movement toward and away from the water supply means (33, 33') and in a direction normal to the direction of the water supply means.    5. apparatus as claimed in claims 3 or 4 characterised in that power actuated means (248, 249, 250) carried by the conveyance means for at least assisting in the movement of the movable support means.    6. apparatus as claimed in any of the preceding claims characterised in that the means supporting the water receiving conduit junction means (45) and the elongated water conduit means (41, 41') include water conduit swivel means which support the same for rotational movement through 3600 relative to the sprinkler means water inlet conduit.    7. apparatus as claimed in any of the preceding claims characterised in that locating means (59,60,61) are provided associated with the end portion of the elongated water conduit means adjacent said connecting means (52, 52') for positioning a connecting means contiguous to a water outlet valve means.    8. apparatus as claimed in any of the preceding claims characterised in that coordinating means (83) are provided for successively closing a water outlet valve means (35, 35') and the, water flow control valve means (170) of the associated elongated water conduit means and unconnecting the associated connecting means subsequently to another connecting means being connected to a second water valve means and the second water valve means being opened.      9. apparatus as claimed in any of the preceding claims characterised in that means (47, 49, 112) are provided associated with the conveyance (36, 36') whereby movement of the conveyance along the length dimension of the water supply means results in rotation of the water receiving conduit junction means (45) and the plurality of elongated water conduit means (41, 41') to thereby bring succeeding connecting means (52, 52') into successive connection relationship with successive water outlet valve means (35,   35')    along the length of the water supply means.    10. apparatus as claimed in any of the preceding claims characterised in that power actuated means (240, 241, 242, 244) are provided carried by the conveyance for at least assisting in rotational movement of the water receiving junction conduit means and elongated water conduit means.      gpparatus    as claimed in any of claims 1 to 10 characterised in that the conveyance (36,   36')    is an extension of the moving water sprinkler means support means, and includes means for supporting the water receiving conduit junction means (45) and associated structure from above by the conveyance.    12. apparatus as claimed in any of the preceding claims characterised in that valve opening and closing means are provided associated with each connecting means for opening and closing water outlet valve means.    13. apparatus as claimed in any of the preceding claims characterised in that there are three elongated water conduit means disposed in 1200 relation to each other.    14. apparatus as claimed in   any    of claims   n    to 12 characterised in that there are two elongated water conduit means disposed in   1800    relation to each other.    15. a method for use in connection with land irrigation, in which method a moving sprinkler means  having a water inlet means at one point moves along the length of a stationary water supply means having a plurality of water outlet valve means at spaced intervals along the length thereof, and water outlet valve means of the stationary water supply means are connected with water inlet means of the sprinkler means to obtain a water supply to the sprinkler means, the method being characterised by moving a conveyance means (36,   36')    along the length dimension of the stationary water supply means (33, 33'), the conveyance means carrying a water receiving conduit junction means (45) having water outlet means (46) rotatably connected to the water inlet means (51) of the sprinkler means,  the water receiving conduit junction means also having a plurality of water inlet means   (44).,    and elongated water conduit means (41, 41'), each elonated water conduit means having water outlet means (117) at one portion connected to the water inlet means of the water receiving conduit junction means and each elongated water conduit means having a connecting means (52, 52') at the other end portion for successive water flow connection and disconnection with the water outlet valve means (35, 35') on the stationary water supply means, rotating the water receiving conduit junction means (45) and the elongated water conduit means (41, 41') to bring the connecting means (52, 52') of a first elongated conduit means into contiguity with a first water outlet valve means (35, 35')  of the stationary water supply means while maintaining the connecting means of a second elongated water conduit means connected for water flow to the water outlet valve means of the stationary water supply means next adjacent to the first water outlet valve means in the direction opposite to the direction of movement of the conveyance means along the length of the stationary water supply means, rotatably connecting the connecting means (52, 52') of the first elongated conduit means  and the first water outlet valve means (35, 35') for water flow and subsequently disconnecting the connecting means of the second elongated conduit means from the second water outlet valve means to stop water flow through the second elongated water conduit, moving a connecting   means (52,    52')  other than the first connecting means of an elongated water conduit means other than the first elongated water conduit means into contiguity with a third water outlet valve means next adjacent to the first water outlet valve means in the direction of movement of the conveyance means along the length of the stationary water supply means, and rotatably connecting the connecting means other than the first connecting means of the elongated conduit means other than the first elongated conduit means and the third water outlet valve means for water flow and subsequently disconnecting the coupling means of the first elongated connecting means from the first water outlet valve to stop water flow through the first elongated water conduit means.    16. the method as claimed in claim 15 characterised in that there are three elongated water conduit means, and the water receiving conduit junction means (45) and the plurality of elongated water conduit means are rotated through 1200 to bring the connecting means (52, 52') of each elongated water conduit into contiguity with successive water outlet valve means.    17. the method as claimed in claim 16 characterised in that there are two elongated water conduit means, and the water receiving conduit junction means (45) and the plurality of elongated water conduit means are rotated through 1800 to bring the connecting means (52, 52') of each elongated water conduit into contiguity with successive water outlet valve means.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
