<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0013094
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800709
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B02C-19/06 B02C-19/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
coal and mineral cleaning process and apparatus using shock frequency separation.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
kintyre etshk<sep>kintyre enterprises limited<sep>kintyre enterprises limited403-413 hong kong and shanghai bank buildingno.1 queen's road centralhk<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
lloyd robertau<sep>turner maxwell jamesau <sep>lloyd, robert<sep>turner, maxwell james  <sep>lloyd, robert7 karalee roadgalston, new south wales 2159au<sep>turner, maxwell james138 kangaroo point roadkangaroo point, new south wales 2224au<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
particulate solids (26) such as minerals comprising chem­ ically or physically bound components of different hardnes­ ses are to be broken down into smaller particles by means of  shock frequency methods (25).  the particles travel at high  velocities and undergo inertia changes to cause the breakup.   an apparatus for carrying out the method is also provided.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
"coal and mineral cleaning process and appara9l3s u / 'jazz using shock frequency separation" this invention relates to a method and apparatus of breaking the physical bond of particulate solids to break the solids into fine particles. the invention also provides for a method of breaking composite particulate solids into their constituents. for the purpose of this specification, composite particles are defined as particles which comprise a conglomeration of various constituent particle substances physically or partly chemically bound together. most solid natural resources exist in composite forms which contain pure constituent substances of varying degrees of usefulness and end value. an example of such a composite form is the grain product wheat which contains flour, fiber, and germ. the flour particles in turn comprise starch and protein particles physically bound together and which are presently separated by involved dry and wet processing means. most mineral and coal resources are recovered as composite (not pure) particles, which must undergo further complex processing to yield the desired valuable constituent substance in a substantially pure form, and in some cases, the cost of such processing exceeds the value of the end product or there is simply no way of carrying out a sufficient extraction so that many necessary resources are left untapped or cannot be efficiently processed to a high grade product. existing methods of extracting the various constituent substances usually comprise crushing the solid particles to a smaller size lump, grinding the lumps into fine particles, followed by physical or chemical processing of the fine particles to recover the desired constituent substances. this is obviously a multi-stage and thus costly and slow process. we shall consider coal as an example of a naturally occurring substance. coal, when found in high grade deposits, can be mined and used directly after reduction to a usable particle size when coal is originally laid down, in places such as swamps, the organic matter which foams the coal is interspersed with generally small particles of inorganic material. the inorganic matter will hereinafter be referred to as ash. the ash particles generally have rounded edges because of the abrasion they undergo during their life before inclusion in the organic matter. thus, the coal is basically a continuous layer of organic matter which includes varying amounts of ash particle inclusions or layers. in a low grade (secondary) coal, it is essential to remove a great percentage of the ash for two main reasons. firstly, the ash lowers the calorific value of the coal (i.e., coal as mined) .scondly, when the coal is burnt, the ash creates unacceptably high levels of pollution. however, it is presently not possible to economically reduce the ash content sufficiently in many coals to enable those coals to be sold and burnt. the main problem with existing coal-ash separation processes is that as the coal is ground into fine particles, so is the ash, making separation extremely ulfficult. thus, if the pure coal can be broken into very fine particle sizes in relation to the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims    1. a method of breaking the bond of a particulate solids feed into fine particles comprising feeding the feed solids into a high speed gas stream, applying to the solids being carried in the gas stream a shock treatment which has been determined according to the characteristics of the bond between the particles of the solid to reduce the material to smaller particles, and collecting the particles which have been subjected to said shock treatment.    2. a method of selectively reducing in particle size a particular constituent or constituents of a composite particle, comprising feeding the composite particle feed solids into a high speed gas stream, applying to the solids being carried in said gas stream a shock treatment which has been determined according to the bond between the pure particles and/or the constituent particles to be reduced from the composite particle, separating the particles following said shock treatment, and collecting separated fractions.    3. the method of claims 1 or 2 wherein the particles being carried in said gas stream are distributed across the stream so that they have minimal contact with each other.    4. the   meted    of any of claims 1 to 3 wherein the gas stream and the particles being carried therein pass through a flow stabilisation zone before entering a shock treatment zone, wherein in said flow stabilisation zone the particles are accelerated up towards the velocity required prior to said shock treatment.    5. the method of claim 4 wherein said shock treatment is a straight line continuation of said stabilisation zone.    6. the method of claim 5 wherein the particles being carried in said gas flow are kept from contact with the walls of said flow stabilisation and shock treatment zoncs.      7. the method of any one   cf    the preceding   claims    wherein said shock treatment is by means of altering the velocity of said gas and particle stream as it passes through said shock treatment zone.    8. the method of claim 7 wherein said velocity is altered by repeated change of direction in a reciprocal manner according to the characteristics of the particle bonds to be broken.    9. the method of any one of the preceding claims wherein high temperature fluidizing gas is used to evaporate moisture or volatiles from said   leed    solids.    10. the method of any one of the preceding claims wherein the fluidizing gas comprises a reactive gas.    11. the method of any one of the preceding claims wherein coal is the feed material.    12. the method of claim 11 wherein lime is added to the feed solids material.    13. the method of claim 11 or 12 wherein hydrogen is added to the fluidizing gas.    14. the method of claim 12 wherein the fluidizing gas forms a non-explosive mixture with the coal.    15. the method of any one of the preceding claims wherein the particles leaving the shock treatment zone pass directly into a flow acceleration zone and into a particle size separator.    16. the method of any one of the preceding claims wherein the entire system is integrally sealed so that it can be operated at temperatures other than atmospheric to alter the shock effect.    17. an apparatus for reducing a particulate solid (26) into finer particles comprising an elongate flow chamber (23), means to feed particulate solids into said chamber (20), high pressure gas from gas production means (54) into said chamber to fluidize said particulate solids (26) and carry said particulate solids (26) through said chamber (23) into a gas-solid flow stabilisation zone (24) leading to a shock treatment zone (25) wherein in said shock treatment zone (25) there is provided means (27) adapted to impart a predetermined shock to said  particles   accordinc    to the particular characteristics of the particles to   bn    broken.    18. the apparatus of claim 17 wherein there is further provided means (30, 31, 32) to separate and collect the various particle fractions following treatment in said chamber (27a).    19. the apparatus of claim 18 wherein the particles (26) leaving the shock treatment zone (25) travel through a coaxial chamber (29) with that of the shock treatment zone wherein said particles are reaccelerated before being fed into a particle separation device (30, 31, 32) which splits the particle flow stream by removing the gases and finest particles in peripheral throughflow-outlets (30, 31) whilst the larger heavier particles are removed in a slower moving central airstream (32).    20. the apparatus of any one of claims 17 to 19 wherein means to feed (20) the particulate solids into said chamber comprises a sealable feeding device which is adapted to continuously feed said solids to said chamber.    21. the apparatus of claim 20 wherein means are provided to preheat the contents of said feeding device.    22. the apparatus of any one of claims 17 to 21 wherein the chamber (24) has a substantially rectangular transverse cross-section.    23. the apparatus of claim 22 wherein the width dimension (31) of the said rectangular cross-section is relatively small compared to the length dimension (30).    24. the apparatus of claim 22 wherein the width dimension does not exceed six inches.    25. the apparatus of any one of the preceding claims 22 to 24 wherein there is at least one set of flow booster nozzles (26) positioned across each wall (30) comprising the length dimension of said rectangular crosssection to inject high pressure gas into said gas stream at an angle of up to 300 to the direction of flow of the gas stream.    26. the apparatus of any one of claims 17 to 25 wherein the shock treatment is provided by a series of  plungers (27) located one after the other along the   chamber    and which reciprocate into and out of the gas flow through the length dimension walls (30) of the chamber, each plunger having an opposing plunger (27) in the opposite wall (30') which withdraws from the chamber (27a) as the first-mentioned plunger enters the chamber and enters the chamber as the first-mentioned plunger leaves the chamber.    27. the apparatus of claim 26 wherein the plungers have a maximum intrusion into the chamber of up to 30% of the width dimension (31) of the chamber.    28. the apparatus of claim 27 wherein the frequency of each pair of opposing plungers (27) and the movement between adjacent plungers relative to one another is determined according to the shock required to break the bonds of the particle.     29. the apparatus of claim 26 wherein the plungers (27) are driven by electromagnetic means.    30. the apparatus of any one of claims 17 to 29 wherein the gas being removed from the particles which have passed through the chamber is recycled (41) back to the high pressure gas generation plant (54) to utilise its kinetic and thermal energy.    31. the apparatus of claim 30 wherein the recycled gas is fed directly into the feedpoint (57) of the chamber (24).    32. the apparatus of claim 30 or 31 wherein the recycle gas passes through water dropout units (52) to dehydrate it.    33. the apparatus of claim 32 wherein the recycle gas (41) passes through blowers (33) to boost its flow and assist in withdrawing it from said chamber.    34. the apparatus of claim 33 wherein the recycle gas (41) passes through sulphur removal units (53) after passing through slid blowers (33).  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
