<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0005041
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19791031
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<main>B65H-31/24</main> B65H-39/11 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
feeding mechanism for a continuous sorting machine.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
holliday david hus<sep>ordibel incus<sep>holliday, david h.<sep>ordibel, inc.<sep>holliday, david h.15521-15th neseattle washington 98155us<sep>ordibel, inc.90 park avenuenew york n.y. 10016us  <sep>holliday, david h.<sep>ordibel, inc.<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
greene ronald w<sep>holliday david h<sep>greene, ronald w.<sep>holliday, david h.<sep>greene, ronald w.3116 south 133rd st.seattle washington 98168us<sep>holliday, david h.15521-15th n.e.seattle washington 98155us<sep>greene, ronald w.<sep>holliday, david h.  <sep>greene, ronald w. 3116 south 133rd st.seattle washington 98168us<sep>holliday, david h.15521-15th n.e.seattle washington 98155us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
continuous feeder mechanism for a continuous paper  sorting machine including a receiver 14 comprised of two  columns of inclined side-by-side stacks of paper storage bins  with entrances for receiving paper sheets from the feeder 10.   the feeder 10 has an in-feed conveyor 18 which takes paper  from a copy making device 12 and feeds it either to an  intermediate downwardly inclined conveyor 26 or onto an  intermediate upwardly inclined conveyor 24, depending on  whether the feeder 10 is distributing paper from the bottom  or from the top.  paper sheets from the intermediate conveyors  24 and 26 in turn are transported to a generally  vertically disposed, reversible feeder conveyor 28 which is  provided with a plurality of two-way deflectors which  intercept the sheets and direct them off the conveyor 28  moving either downwardly or upwardly.  a deflector guide  section is disposed between the deflectors and the entrances  of the bins in the receiver 14.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
feeding mechanism for a continuous sorting machine this invention relates to sheet distributing or sorting devices and more particularly to an apparatus which can continuously sort large numbers of multipaged documents as copies of a particular page proceed from a reproducing device such as a printer or copy making machine. reference is made to our copending european patent ;pplication no. 79300624.8 , filed on even dated herewith, entitled "continuous paper sorting machine" and corresponding to u.s. patent application serial no. 897,272 dated 17th april 1978 prior art paper distributors, sorters and/or collators have encountered many problems. one is that the large increase in the costs of labour and mnterils has made it more imperative that the available press or duplicator capacity be utilized to its fullest. in order for the maximum volume capability of a printing, duplicating or copy making machine to be utilized, it is necessary that the sorter have the capacity to receive the printer or copy making machine output withouttundue loss of press or copy making machine time. large volume sorting machines have been introduced to the market place but they are not continuous. for instance, after a column of trays or bins has been filled, it is necessary to shift that filled colums away from the feeder and nove an empty column into position to continue the sorting job. thus there is lost a significant amount of press of copy machine production time between columns. additionally, the time is lost if the bins have to be unloaded on line. the differences in the volume of jobs that sorters must handle suggest that sorters should be modular to the extent that if a module does not have the capacity, additional modular receiver bin sections may be provided. without any substantial loss of time or extra handling of the copied material. while smaller collators or sorters are mainly intended for the office market as a necessary adjunct to office copying machinery, larger sorters are more intended for the high volume commercial market and for large in-plant reproduction centers, commercial houses and printing departments. these higher volume paper handling installations may be turning out catalogs, maintenance manuals, instruction books, brochures, sales material and perhaps other items such as reports, bid specifications and other large quantity multipage publications. those skilled in the art will appreciate the savings in labor, time and money if the output of a printing or copying center can be sorted and handled at a rate which is matched to the press and duplicating machinery production capability. among the prior art references which may be considered with respect to the features of this invention are the following: united states patent nos. 3,420,517; 3,273,882; 3,356,362; 3,848,86?; 3,93?,459; 3,938,801; 3,740,050; 3,944,217 and 3,963,235. the devices covered by the above list of patents are considered to be non-anticipatory of the teachings of this invention. a continuous paper sorting machine in which the receiver with the bin is designed generally in accordance with the teachings of u.s.patent no.3,938,801 which describes sideby-side
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:   1. a generally upright continuous feeder mechanism for a paper sorter having a receiver in which said receiver includes columnar stacks of inclined side-by-side paper storage bins means with entrances for receiving paper sheets from said feeder, said receiver being detachably mounted for lateral movement relative to said feeder mechanism, said feeder mechanism comprising; ;  a) a main supporting frame including a base section and an upstanding tower section,  b) a first infeed conveyor means for receiving sheets of paper to be sorted from a paper copy-making device and having a receiving end and a discharge end, said first conveyor means including directional deflector means at its discharge end for selectively directing sheets of paper to a second or third intermediate conveyor means,  c) a second intermediate conveyor means for receiving paper sheets from said first conveyor means for transporting sheets of paper to the upper end of a feeder conveyor means,     d) a third intermediate conveyor means for receiving paper sheets from said first conveyor means for transporting sheets of paper to the lower end of a feeder conveyor means,  e) generally vertically disposed fourth feeder conveyor means in predetermined spaced relation to the entrances of said   bin means and which is reversible so as to selectively receive paper sheets from said second and third conveyor means, said fourth feeder conveyor also including a plurality of bin deflector means for selectively directing paper sheets into said bin means as the said paper sheets proceed along said fourth conveyor means either from the top or from the bottom,  f) means for moving all said conveyor means, means for selectively reversing said fourth feeder conveyor means and means for selectively actuating all said deflector means.   2. the continuous feeder mechanism according to claim 1 and in which a plurality of paper guide means are provided generally between said bin deflector means and the entrances to said bin means for assisting in directing sheets of paper to said bin means.     3. the continuous feeder mechanism according to claim 2 and in which said plurality of paper guide means are mounted on a secondary frame pivotally attached to said tower section so that said paper guide means may be swung away from said fourth conveyor means and said bin deflector means.   4. the continuous feeder mechanism according to claim 1 and in which said intermediate second and third conveyor means angle upwardly to the upper end and downwardly to the lower end respectively of said fourth feeder conveyor means.      5. the continuous feeder mechanism according to   claim    l and in which a drive and clutching means are located in the base section of said main supporting frame for effecting rapid reversal of said fourth feeder conveyor means.    6. the continuous feeder mechanism according to claim 1 and in which a proof or paper receiving tray is located above said first infeed conveyor for selectively receiving sheets of paper from said first infeed conveyor means, and further including a proof deflector means near the receiving end thereof for selectively guiding sheets of paper off said infeed conveyor means and to said proof tray.    7. the continuous feeder mechanism according to   claim    6 and in   which    said a fifth proof conveyor means is   disposed    generally between said proof deflector   means    and said   proof    tray for conveying sheets of paper to said proof tray.    8. the continuous feeder mechanism according to claim 1   dtid    in   which    all of said conveyor means are comprised of a plurality of yenerally equally spaced apart, minimum   arua    cross-section, individual   continuous      belt    strips which present a minimum amount of contact with said sheets of paper to reduce the driven conveyor mass and to reduce the  static electricity charge in the paper sheets and conveyor system, said individual belt strips being mounted on drive and idler rollers to minimize friction in the conveyor system.   9. the continuous feeder mechanism according to claim   1    and in which are evacuating means are provided for creating a vacuum for all of said conveyor means for assisting in the transport of sheets of paper on all said conveyors.   10. the continuous feeder mechanism according to claim 1 and in which said plurality of bin deflector means are provided with individual solenoid means for selectively actuating each bin deflector means as determined by the control system.   11. a generally upright continuous feeder mechanism for a paper sorter receiver in which said receiver includes columnar stacks of side-byside paper storage bins having a generally perpendicular entry side for receiving paper sheets from said feeder, said receiver being detachably mounted for bidirectional movement at a predetermined speed along a track which is generally at a right angle to the direction in which paper sheets are fed to said receiver bins, said columnar stacks  of bins being inclined at a predetermined angle from the vertical along the path of movement of said receiver, said feeder mechanism comprising:    a) a first:  infeed   conveyor    means for receiving sheets of   paper    to be sorted from a paper   copy-inakiny    device and slaving a receiving end with a   discharge    end, said first conveyor   means    including a   directionsl    deflector means at its   discharge    end for selectively directing sheets of   paper    upwardly and downwardly; ;  b) a generally upwardly angled second intermediate conveyor means for receiving paper sheets from said first conveyor for transporting sheets of   paper    upwardly to the upper end of a feeder conveyor,  c) a generally downwardly angled third intermediate conveyor means for receiving paper sheets from said first conveyor for transporting sheets of paper downwardly to the lower end of a feeder conveyor,  d) a generally vertically disposed fcurth feeder conveyor means which is generally parallel and in predetermined spaced relation to the entry side of said   rtucivcr    and   which    is reversible so as to selectively receive paper sheets   from    said second and third conveyor   means,    said fourth feeder conveyor also including a plurality of bin deflector means    registering with the   entrallce    to said bins in said receiver for directing paper   sheets      into    said bins as the said paper sheets proceed along said   fourth    conveyor either from the top or from the bottom,  c) a plurality of guide   means      provided    on said feeder mechanism between said fourth feeder conveyor and the entrance to said bins for guiding sheets from said fourth   collvecr    and deflectors into said bins, and     f) means for moving all said convevor means.      means    for   selectivel;      reversing    said fourth   feeder    conveyor, and   means    for selectively actuating each of said bin deflector   means.       12. the continuous feeder mechanism according to   claim    11 and in   which    said plurality of paper guide means are   mounted    on a secondary frame pivotally attached to said tower section so that said paper guide means may be swung away from said fourth conveyor means and said bin deflector means.    13. the continuous feeder mechanism according to   claim    11 and in which a drive and clutching means are located in the base section of said main supporting frame for effecting rapid reversal of said fourth feeder conveyor means.    14. the continuous feeder   mechanisjn    according to   claim    11 and in   which    a proof or paper receiving tray is located above said first infeed conveyor for selectively receiving sheets of paper from said first infeed conveyor means, and further including a proof deflector means near tile receiving   end    thereof for selectively guiding   sleets    of paper off said infeed convevor means and to said proof tray.     15. the continuous feeder mechanism according to claim 14, and in which said fifth proof conveyor means is disposed generally between said proof deflector means and said proof tray for conveying sheets of paper to said proof tray.   16. the continuous feeder mechanism according to claim 11 and in which all of said conveyor means are comprised of a plurality of generally equally spaced apart, minimum area cross-section, individual continuous belt strips which present a minimum amount of contact with said sheets of paper to reduce the driven conveyor mass and to reduce the static electricity charge in the paper sheets and conveyor system, said individual belt strips being mounted on drive and idler rollers to minimize friction in the conveyor system.    17. the continuous feeder mechanism according to claim 11 and in which air evacuating means are provided for creating a vacuum for all of said conveyor means for assisting in the transport of sheets of paper on all said conveyors.     18. the continuous feeder mechanism according to claim 11 and in which said plurality of bin deflector means are provided with individual solenoid means for selectively actuating each bin deflector means as determined by the control system.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
