<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0006582
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800109
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<main>G01N-33/50</main> G01N-33/82 C07C-103/50 G01N-33/50 G01N-33/84 G01N-33/96 G01N-33/72 G01N-33/52 C12Q-1/00 G01N-33/92 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
method for stabilizing solutions of gamma-glutamyl-p-nitroanilide.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
modrovich ivan endre<sep>modrovich, ivan endre<sep>modrovich, ivan endre628 calle planocamarillo california 93010us<sep>modrovich, ivan endre<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
modrovich ivan endre<sep>modrovich, ivan endre<sep>modrovich, ivan endre628 calle planocamarillo california 93010us<sep>modrovich, ivan endre<sep>modrovich, ivan endre628 calle planocamarillo california 93010us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a labile, organic reagent which is unstable in aqueous  media and stable in a non-aqueous media is stabilized by  dissolving the organic reagent in a water-miscible, organic sol­ vent which is liquid at room temperature and which is nonde­ gradatively reactive with the organic reagent to form a solution of  the organic reagent in the organic solvent.  at least 1 percent of  an inert, high surface area particulate dessicant is added to the  solution for entrapping water with the dessicant so that the  residual water content of the solution is below about 0. 5 percent.   the dessicant can be removed from the solution before sealing  it.  more than one organic reagent can be added to the solvent,  and a solubilizing agent for the organic reagent can be used.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
stabilization of hydrolysis prone labile organic reagents in liquid media cross-references to related applications this application is a continuation-in-part of united states patent application serial nos. 722,565 filed on september 13, 1976; 764,826 filed on february 2, 1977; and 775,883 filed on march 9, 1977. the '883 application is a continuation-in-part of the '826 application, which is a continuation of united states patent application serial no. 667,857 filed on march 17, 1976. each of these four patent applications is incorporated herein by this reference. background of the invention this invention relates to a new and useful method for stabilizing labile organic reagents which are prone to hydrolysis in aqueous media and which are stable in organic media. this includes coenzymes and other organic compounds, but excludes enzymes because they denature in 100 percent organic solvents. the organic reagents can be of biological origin or can be synthesized. it has been estimated that 25 percent of all in vitro diagnostic tests conducted annually in the united states are not reliable. unreliable tests can result in unnecessary medical treatment, the withholding of necessary treatment and lost income. because of their high specificity, the use of enzyme determinations has significantly increased during the last few years, and indications are that this trend will continue. however, rigorous quality control measures are required to assure the accuracy and consistency of results. this requirement stems from the fact that the exact nature of enzymes, as well as the mechanisms of their auction, remain unknown for the most part at present, the most important reason for the unreliability of in vitro diagnostic tests is the instability of the aqueous solution of the organic reagents used. current methodologies require the use of numerous labile reagents. due to this problem, rigorous quality control in the manufacture of in vitro diagnostic kits is required, and this quality control is, of course, costly. moreover, if control in any step in the process is not maintained within a high degree of control standards, the quality of the final product can be reduced materially. the present commercial state-of-the-art used for stabilizing the reactive ability of coenzymes and other organic reagents is by locking them into a solid matrix by: (a) freeze drying; (b) dry blending such as used for tableting dried powders in the pharmaceutical industries; or (c) by chemical immobilization of the reagent. contrary to the sophistication these terms imply, these approaches are impractical and expensive. a manufacturer is forced to remove the water and supply a partial product, thus relinquishing part of the quality control cycle to the user who must dilute the final product. laboratories are forced to pay the high cost of freeze drying and dry blending, and much reagent is wasted due to poor dilution techniques by unsophisticated laboratory personnel. furthermore, only limited packaging modes and sizes are available. therefore, there is a need for a method for stabilizing labile, hydrolysis prone organic reagents in a liquid media so the reagents can be provided in a single container
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
   wheat    is   claimed    is:    1. a method for stabilizing a labile organic reagent which is unstable in aqueous media and stable in a nonaqueous media comprising the steps of:  a. dissolving at least one such organic reagent in  a water-miscible, organic solvent which is liquid  at room temperature and which is nondegradatively  reactive with such organic reagent to form a  solution of such organic reagent in the organic  solvent;  b. adding at least 1 percent by weight of an inert,  high surface area, particulate dessicant, to the  solvent either before or after dissolving the  reagent in the solvent for entrapping water with  the dessicant so that the residual water content  of the solution is below about 0.5 percent; and  c. sealing the solution.    2. the method of claim 1 in which the solvent has the following characteristics:  a. low water content (trace  < 0.1%);  b. liquid at room and refrigerator temperatures;  c. does not react with the organic reagent other  than forming electrostatic (i.e., hydrogen) bonds;  d. miscible with water;  e. standard free energy of solvolysis is low (normal  resonance is established).    3. the method of claim 1 in which the solvent comprises a   polyol    containing from 2 to 4 hydroxyl groups and from 2 to 10 carbon atoms.      4. the method of claim 3 in which the solvent is a 1,2-propane diol.    5. the method of claim 1 in which the dessicant is a molecular sieve present in an amount from 5-20% v/v.    6. the method of claim 5 in which the dessicant has a particle size from about 2-16 mesh.    7. the method of claim 1 in which the step of dissolving comprises dissolving an organic reagent selected from the group consisting of:  gamma-glutamyl-p-nitroanalide  paranitrophenyl phosphate  phenophtalein monophosphate  glycerol phosphate  p-nitroanalide  p-nitrophenol  ascorbic acid  tetraphenylboron  bilirubin  phosphoenolpyruvate  cholesterol  magnesium thynolphtalein monophosphate  dithioerythreitol    dithiothrei tol     n-acetyl cysteine  glutathione    mercaptoethanol     o-cresolphtalein complexone  n-acetyl cysteine  adenosine triphosphate  beta-nicotinamide-adenine-dinucleotide   (claim 7 cont.)  nadph  nadp  nadh2  hydrated nadh2  adenosine monophosphate  adenoisine diphosphate and combinations thereof.    8. the method of claim 1 including the step of adding to the solvent a solubilizing agent for the organic reagent, wherein the solubilizing agent is nondegradatively reactive with the reagent.    9. the method of claim 8 in which the solubilizing agent is selected from the group consisting of:  boric acid  imidazole  salycilate  ascorbic acid and combinations thereof.    10. the method of claim 1 in which the step of adding gamma glutamyl-p-nitroanalide a solvent selected from the group consisting of dimethyl sulfoxide, acetone, and combinations thereof.    11. the method of claim 10 including the step of adding boric acid to the solvent for solubilizing the reagent.      12. the method of claim 1 in which the step of dissolving comprises dissolving cholesterol in a solvent comprising tetrahydrofuran, dimethyl sulfoxide, and isopropanol.    13. the method of claim i in which the step of dissolving comprises dissolving magnesium thymolphtalein monophosphate in a solvent comprising phenol and methanol.    14. the method of claim 1 in which the organic reagent is selected from the group consisting of:  dithiothreitol  dithioerythreitol  n-acetyl cysteine     g lutathione  mercaptoethanol    and combinations thereof, and the solvent is a polyol containing from 2 to 4 hydroxyl groups and from 4 to 10 carbon atoms.    15. the method of claim 1 in which the step of dissolving comprises dissolving bilirubin in dimethyl   sulf oxide.       16. the method of claim 1 in which the step of dissolving comprises dissolving bilirubin in a solvent comprising phenol and methanol.    17. the method of claim 1 in which the step of dissolving comprises dissolving o-cresolphtalein complexone in dimethyl sulfoxide.    18. the method of claim 1 in which the step of dissolving comprises dissolving o-cresolphtalein complexone in a solvent comprising dimethyl sulfoxide.      19. the method of claim 1 in which the step of dissolving comprises dissolving o-cresolphtalein complexone in a solvent comprising phenol and methanol.    20. the method of claim 1 in which the step of dissolving comprises dissolving a salt of phosphoenolpyruvate in a solvent selected from the group consisting of dimethyl sulfoxide, acetone, and combinations thereof.    21. the method of claim 20 wherein the salt of phosphoenolpyruvate is the monocyclohexylammonium salt of phosphoenolpyruvate.    22. the method of claim 1 wherein the step of dissolving comprises dissolving a salt of beta-nicotinamide-adeninedinucleotide in a solvent selected from the group consisting of ethanol, ethylene glycol, and combinations thereof.    23. the method of claim 22 in which the step of dissolving comprises dissolving a lithium salt   (c21h26n7o14li 2h20)    of beta-nicotinamide-adenine-dinucleotidephosphate in solvent.    24. the method of claim 1 in which the step of dissolving comprises dissolving ascorbic acid in dimethyl   sulf oxide.       25. the method of claim 10 in chich the step of dissolving reagent comprises dissolving paranitrophenyl phosphate in the dimethyl sulfoxide.    26. the method of claim 11 in which the step of dissolving reagent comprises dissolving paranitrophenyl phosphate in the dimethyl sulfoxide.      27. a method for stabilizing a labile organic reagent which is unstable in aqueous media and stable in a nonaqueous media comprising the steps of:  a. dissolving at least one such organic reagent in a  water-miscible, organic solvent which is liquid  at room temperature and which is nondegradatively  reactive with such organic reagent to form a solution  of such organic reagent in the organic solvent;  b. adding at least 1 percent by weight of an inert,  high surface area, particulate dessicant, to the  solvent either before or after dissolving the  reagent in the solvent for entrapping water with  the dessicant;  c. maintaining the dessicant in the solvent for a  sufficient time that the residual water content  of the   solutions    is below about 0.5 percent:  :  d. removing substantially all of the dessicant from  the solution after the reagent is dissolved in  the solvent; and  e. sealing the solution.    28. a method for stabilizing a labile organic reagent  which is unstable in aqueous media and stable in a non-aqueous  media comprising the steps of:  a. dissolving at least one solubilizing agent for the  organic reagent in a water-miscible, organic solvent  which is liquid at room temperature and which is  nondegradatively reactive with the organic reagent,  wherein the solubilizing agent is nondegradatively  reactive with the organic reagent; thereafter  b. adding the organic reagent to the organic solvent  and stirring the solvent; thereafter  c. filtering the solution to remove any debris or  undissolved reagent or solubilizing agent; thereafter     d. adding at least 1 percent by weight of an inert,  high surface area, particulate dessicant, to the  solution for entrapping water with the dessicant  so that the residual water content of the solution  is below about 0.5 percent;   and  e. sealing the solution.    29. a product prepared by the method of any of the claims 1 to 28.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
