<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0007176
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800123
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
C12P-19/02 C12P-19/00 C12P-7/02 C12N-9/02 C07C-29/00 C12P-7/04 C12N-9/08 C07D-301/02 C12P-17/02 C07D-301/00 C07C-29/10 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
method for producing epoxides and glycols from alkenes
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
cetus corpus<sep>cetus corporation<sep>cetus corporation1400 fifty-third streetemeryville california 94608us<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
amon jr william frederickus <sep>geigert john us<sep>neidleman saul lewisus<sep>amon jr., william frederick<sep>geigert, john<sep>neidleman, saul lewis<sep>amon jr., william frederick831 matadera circledanville, californiaus<sep>geigert, john1804 yvonne driveconcord, californiaus<sep>neidleman, saul lewis5277 hilltop crescentoakland, californiaus<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a method is describod for the manufacture of epoxides or glycols from olefins.  an olefin is contacted with a reaction mixture of a halogonating enzyme, an oxydizing agent and a halide ion source, for a sufficient period to convert the olefin to a halohydrin.  the halohydrin is then converted to an epoxide or glycol. 
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
method for producing epoxides and glycols from alkenes this invention relates generally to an enzymatic process for making useful commercial products from alkenes. more particularly, the invention relates to an improved process for the production of epoxides and gly- cols from alkenes wherein an enzyme is used to produce an intermediate halohydrin and the halohydrin is converted to an epoxide or glycol by an enzymatic or chemical process. as used herein, the term "alkene" is intended to include any open chain hydrocarbon having carbon to carbon double bonds, wherein each of the carbons containing at least one of the double bonds is joined to either hydrogen or another carbon. alkenes include compounds having more than one double bond. the term "ole- fin" as used herein is intended to have the same meaning as "alkene1. a number of useful chemical products, e.g. surfactants, humectants, polymers and plasticizers, are produced from alkenes such as ethylene and propylene. examples of such useful products prepared from alkenes include epoxides and glycols. the preparation of other products often involves first producing an epoxide or glycol and then reacting it in some subsequent chemical process to form the desired compound. to form the epoxide two general approaches have been used traditionally. the first of these is to oxidize the alkene directly. the second is to form an intermediate halohydrin and then convert it with a base to form the epoxide. glycols usually are produced by hydrating the corresponding epoxide. in recent years the development of alternate processes for producing epoxides and glycols has been receiving considerable attention, due to the high commercial value of such materials, the extensive energy requirements-of the known processes and the high cost of required reaction materials. processes utilizing direct oxidation, currently a commercially favored path from ethylene to ethylene oxide, normally require pure oxygen and supported silver oxide catalyst, both of which add to cost and necessitate expensive safety procedures and devices. moreover, the elevated temperature required in the process, typically 2700c, increases the energy cost in the process. also, reaction yields are decreased by the production of substantial quantities of carbon dioxide and water as byproducts. processes involving the production of epoxides by conversion of an intermediate halohydrin, currently a commercially favored path from propylene to propylene oxide, have encountered problems in the formation of the halohydrin itself. renown processes for the production of halohydrins from alkenes typically involve the addition of alkene, halogen and water in a reactor under controlled conditions. such processes frequently result in the production of undesirable side products such as hydrochloric acid (which requires neutralization), haloalkanes and bis- (haloalkyl) ethers. moreover, use of free halogen in any process requires expensive control procedures and equipment to prevent loss of this toxic reactant. also, the use of free halogen is now preferably avoided because of the energy-intensive process employed for its production. we have now developed an improved process for producting epoxides and glycols from alkenes wherein an intermediate halohydrin is produced without requiring these of free
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims    1. a method for the manufacture of epoxides or glycols from olefins comprising, providing a reaction mixture of a halogenating enzyme, an   oxidiztng agent    and a halide ion source in a reaction vessel, introducing an olefin into the reaction vessel and maintaining the olefin in contact with the reaction mixture for a sufficient period to convert the olefin to a halohydrin, and converting the halohydrin to an epoxide or glycol.    2. a method as claimed in claim 1 wherein halogenating enzyme is a perioxidase derived from the microorganism caldariomyces fumago, seaweed, milk, thyroid, leukocytes or horseradish.    3. a method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the halogenating enzyme is a peroxidase derived from the microorganism   caldariomsces    fumago, seaweed or milk.    4. a method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the oxidizing agent is hydrogen peroxide.    5. a method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the halide ion source is a water soluble halide salt.    6. a method as claimed in claim 5 wherein the water soluble halide salt is a chloride, bromide or iodide of sodium or potassium.    7. a method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the reaction is conducted at a ph in the range of from 2.2. to 8.0.      8. a method as claimed in claim 4 wherein the hydrogen peroxide is present during the reaction in a molar ratio of from 0.5:1 to 50:1 with respect to the olefin.    9. a method as claimed in claim 4 or claim 8 wherein the hydrogen peroxide is generated   in situ.       10. a method as claimed in claim 9 wherein the hydrogen peroxide is generated   in situ.    by means of glucose-2-oxidase on a glucose substrate with co-production of d-arabino-2-hexosulose, and wherein the d-arabino-2hexosulose is converted to d-fructose.    11. a method as claimed in claim 9 wherein the hydrogen peroxide is generated in situ by means of methanol oxidase on a methanol substrate with co-production of formaldehyde.    12. a method as claimed in claim 9 wherein the hydrogen peroxide is generated in situ by means of glucose oxidase on a glucose substrate with co-production of gluconic acid.    13. a method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the halohydrin is converted to an epoxide by reaction with aqueous slaked lime.    14. a method as claimed in claim 13 wherein the epoxide is converted by hydration to a glycol.    15. a method as claimed in any one of claims   l to    12 wherein the halohydrin is converted to an epoxide enzymatically by means of a halohydrin epoxidase.      16. a method as claimed in claim 15 wherein the halohydrin epoxidase is produced by an organism which is a bacterium of the species flavobacterium the fungus caldariomyces' fumago, or the seaweed laurencia   pecifica.       17. a method as claimed in claim 15 wherein the halohydrin is enzymatically converted to an epoxide in the same reactor as that in which the halohydrin is formed.    18. a method as claimed in any one of the claims 15 to 17 wherein the halogenating enzyme is immobilized by attachment to a carrier in a frist zone of the reaction vessel, the epoxidase is immobilized by attachment to a carrier in a second zone in the reaction vessel, and the olefin is passed continuously through the reaction vessel to continuously provide an olefin epoxide product.    19. a method as claimed in claim 18 wherein the oxidizing agent is hydrogen peroxide generated in situ by use of an enzyme which is immobilized by attachment to a carrier in the first zone of the reaction vessel.    20. a method as claimed in any one df the preceding claims wherein the olefin is ethylene, propylene, butene-l, pentene-l, octene-l, decene-l, dodecene-l, isobutylene, cis-butene-2, trans-butene-2, 2-methyl-butene-2, 1,3-butadiene, 1,4-pentadiene, isoprene or 1,7-octadiene.    21. a method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the olefin is styrene, allyl alcohol, allyl chloride, allyl bromide or allene.    22. a method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the hydrogen peroxide is generated in situ by means of an enzyme, and wherein the halohydrin is converted to an epoxide by means of an enzyme.      23. a method for the manufacture of useful products such as epoxides or glycols from olefins, which method comprises the step of producing a halohydrin from the olefin by providing a reaction mixture of a halogenating enzyme, an oxidizing agent and a halide ion source in a reaction vessel, and introducing an olefin into the reaction vessel and maintaining the olefin in contact with the reaction mixture for a sufficient period to convert the olefin to a halohydrin.    24. a method as claimed in claim 23 wherein the halogenating enzyme is a peroxidase derived from the microorganism caldariomyces   fumago,    seaweed, milk, thyroid, leukocytes or horseradish.    25. a method as claimed in claim 23 wherein the halogenating enzyme is a peroxidase derived from the   microorganism(-caldari myces    fumago, seaweed or milk.    26. a method as claimed in any one of claims 23 to 25 wherein the oxidizing agent is hydrogen peroxide.    27. a method as claimed in any one of claims 23 to 26 wherein the halide ion source is a water soluble halide salt.    28. a method as claimed in any one of claims 23 to 27 wherein the hydrogen peroxide is generated in situ by means of an enzyme at a rate such that the hydrogen peroxide is present during the reaction at a molar ratio which is about 1:1   ox    less with respect to the olefin.      29. a method as claimed in any one of claims 23 to   28wherein    the oxidizing agent is hydrogen peroxide generated in situ by means of glucose-2-oxidase on a glucose substrate with co-production of d-arabino-2hexosulose and wherein the d-arabino-2-hexosulose is converted to d-fructose.     30. a method for the manufacture of useful products such as epoxides or glycols from olefins by producing an intermediate halohydrin from the olefins, "which method comprises reacting an olefin with a halogenating enzyme, an oxidizing agent and a halide ion source, the oxidizing agent being hydrogen peroxide generated in situ by reaction of glucose-2-oxidase on a glucose substrate to produce d-arabino-2-hexosulose as a co-product, and converting the   dçarabino-2-hexosulose    to d-fructose.    31. a method as claimed in   claxm    30 wherein the d-arabino-2-hexosulose is converted to d-fructose by chemical hydrogenation.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
