<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0014580
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800820
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<main>G01N-23/223</main> G01N-23/22 G01N-23/223 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
element analysis unit.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
martin marietta corp us <sep>martin marietta corporation<sep>martin marietta corporation6801 rockledge drivebethesda maryland 20817us<sep>martin marietta corporation<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
clark iii benton clyde<sep>clark iii, benton clyde<sep>clark iii, benton clyde10890 park range roadlittleton colorado 80123us<sep>clark iii, benton clyde  <sep>clark iii, benton clyde10890 park range roadlittleton colorado 80123us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a field portable x-ray fluorescent spectrometer is  described including a multichannel analyzer (2) and a plurality  of interchangeable sensor heads (4).  each sensor head  includes a shutter (100) which, when open, permits one of  several radiation sources (80, 82) to irradiate a material to be  analyzed.  the returned radiation is detected by a  corresponding detector (86, 90), which provides  corresponding data in response.  this shutter has calibration  plaques attached to it so that, when closed, the plaques are  exposed to the radiation sources and return radiation having  selected energy distributions to the detectors.  the  multichannel analyzer uses the resulting detector data to  calibrate the sensor head.  each sensor head includes circuitry  (290) for identifying itself to the mutichannel analyzer.  the  analyzer automatically adapts its operation in accordance  with this identification.  when the shutter is open, the  multichannel analyzer utilizes the detector data to accumulate  an energy spectrum of the material being analyzed, and  displays the spectrum on a display screen (12).  a cursor  control (28) allows the operator to move a cursor along the  displayed spectrum.  a display (32) is automatically provided  with a display of the symbol of the element, if any, having its  major spectral peak at the position identified by the cursor.   secondary indications identify other positions along the  spectrum at which peaks would appear if the element were  present.  memory (202) is provided for storing a number of  reference spectra, any of one of which may be displayed on  the screen along with the acquired spectrum for comparison  purposes.  the memory (202) also stores previously acquired  spectra for later analysis.  the analyzer also includes other  operational features, such as normalization, window control,  and ratio and concentration determination, to permit the  operator to quantitatively analyze material in the field.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
elee2qt analysis unit the present invention relates to element analysis units, and more particularly (but not exclusively) to a field port able i-ray fluorescent spectroseter. x-ray fluorescent spectrometers have long been used to analyze the elemental composition of mineral samples taken during geological surveys. in operation, the unknown mineral samples are irradiated in order to cause them to fluoresce, and the resulting fluorescent x-ray radiation is analyzed with a multichannel radiation analyzer. the multichannel analyzer accumulates a spectrum representing the energy distribution of the fluorescent radiation. the profile of the energy spectrum thus obtained will be determined by the elemental composition of the sample. thus, the elemental composition of the sample can then be determined by comparing the spectrum with other spectrums obtained from samples of known composition. due to the not inconsiderable size of these x-ray fluorescent spectroineters, the practice has heretofore been to install the x-ray fluorescent spectrometer at a fixed location, often quite distant from the area being surveyed. specimens collected in the field thus had to be transpgted to the spectrometer for analysis. rthermorez the specimens oftan had to be processed (as by pulverising them) before analysis could begin. the pin-pointing of a particular mineral concentration was thus a lengthy process, since it might be necessary to make multiple trips to the survey site in order to obtain samples from slightly different areas than those from which the initial samples had been collected. to reduce survey time, then, it was important that the surveyor collecting the samples draw upon his own experience to provide ± visual, first crder analysis of the mineral content of the samples being collected. experience of the surveyor was therefore a factor of considerable importance. several miniature element analysis units utilising the property of x-ray fluorescence were developed for use in space exploration, and are now being used in the two viking landers presently operating on the surface of the planet mars. unfortunately, these x-ray fluorescent spectrometers were designed solely to acquire and transmit raw spectrographic data, which was to be processed in a large scale, earth-based data processing computer. it could not be used to provide an analysis of mineral samples in a field portable system to be operated and read by a person rather than a machine. according to the present invention there is provided an element analysis unit comprising: sensor means including radiation means for irra iating a material to be analysed, and detector means for detecting radiation returned by the irradiated material and providing signals representative of said returned radiation; and processing means interconnected with said sensing means for processing said representative signals; characterised by indicating means in said sensor means for providing an indication of the type of said radiation means and said detector means, said processing means being responsive to said indicating means, whereby different sensor means having different radi ation means and different detector means may be interconnected with said processing means, and said processing means will be automatically adapted for operation therewith. a preferred
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims    1. an element analyser unit comprising:  sensor means (4) including radiation means (80 or 82) for irradiating a material (6) to be analysed, and detector means (86 or 90) for detecting radiation returned by the irradiated material (6) and providing signals representative of said returned radiation;  and  processing means (2) interconnected with said sensing means (4) for processing said representative signals;  characterized by indicating means (290) in said sensor means (4) for providing an indication of   the-tyre    of said radiation means (80 or 82) and said detector means (86 or 90), said processing means (2) being responsive to said indicating means (290), whereby different sensor means (4) having different radiation means (80 or 82) and different detector means (86 or 90) may be interconnected with said processing means (2), and said processing means (2) will be automatically adapted for operation therewith.    2. an element analysis unit as set forth in claim 1 further characterized by said sensor   means    (4) comprising:  a plurality of alternatively selectable radiation means (80 or 82)   and (86    or 90) wherein said indicating  means (2) of which of said plarality of alternecively seiactaoie radiation means (80 or 82) and detector means (86 or 90) are presently being selected.      3.    an element analysis unit as set forth in claim 1   ov    2 further characterized by said processing means (2) further comprising:  means (12) for displaying the energy spectrum of said radiation returned by the irradiated material   t6x,    wherein said displaying means (12) is responsive to said signals from said detector means (86 or 90);  and means for identifying features of said energy spectrum, wherein said identifying means is responsive to said indicating means (290) and to said signals from said detector means (86 or 90).    4. an element analysis unit as set forth in claim 3 further characterized by said processing means (2) further comprising:  a cursor (27) on said spectrum displaying means (12) and a manually operated cursor control (28) such that the position of the cursor on a displayed spectrum is manually controllable; and  a display (32) for displaying an indication of an atomic element represented by the   portion    of spectrum which corresponds to the position of the cursor, wherein said identifying means is responsive to the cursor  control and provides the indication of the atomic   element     5. an element analysis unit as set forth in claim   ig    2, 3, or 4 further characterized by:  a shutter   means(100)    in said sensor means (4) for selectively blocking an opening (84 or 92) in said sensor means (4), said opening (84 or 92) being positioned such that the radiation from the radiation means (80 or 82) which irradiates the irradiated material (6) and the radiation from the irradiated material (6) which returns to the detector means (86 or 90) must pass through said opening (84 or 92);  ;  a surface (114 or 116) of said shutter means (100), which when said shutter means (100) is blocking said opening (84 or 92), said surface (114 or 116) is irradiated by said radiation means (80 or 82) and said detector means (86 or 90) detects the radiation returned from said surface (114 or 116), said surface (114 or 116) being formed of a material having a fluorescent radiation characteristic selected so that the signals provided by said detector means (86 or 90) should have a known distribution of values,  whereby said processing means (2) may be calibrated in accordance with said known distribution of values and the actual distribution of values of the signal provided by the detector means (86 or 90).  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
