<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0007242
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800123
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
G03B-31/00 G03B-31/04 <main>G03B-31/04</main> 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
apparatus for obtaining synchronous sound filming.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
walters eric richard<sep>walters, eric richard<sep>walters, eric richard20 battle boulevardseaforth, new south wales 2092au<sep>walters, eric richard<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
walters eric richard<sep>walters, eric richard<sep>walters, eric richard20 battle boulevardseaforth, new south wales 2092au<sep>walters, eric richard  <sep>walters, eric richard20 battle boulevardseaforth, new south wales 2092au<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
cinematograph-sound equipment and method for the  implementation where the sound from successive scenes is  recorded on a magnetic tape (11) travelling in synchronism  with the picture film.  to avoid accumulative differences with  successive scenes between the length of the exposed film and  the length of the recorded tape due to different over-run of the  tape compared with the film, a device (4) is interposed bet­ ween the camera-switch (9) and the recorder drive control (15)  which delays start of the recorder drive control in response to  operation of the camera switch.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
"improved means for obtaining synchronous sound filming" this invention relates to systems and means for effecting synchronism between the picture film and the sound tape in cinematography. when magnetic sound recording equipment was first used in motion picture production, the recording was made directly onto sprocketed recording tape, identical in size to the film used in the camera, so that one frame of sound equalled one frame of picture. the recorder and camera were driven by identical motors, powered by the same ac power supply, to maintain identical speeds during filming. however, as the recorder was considerably slower in reaching operating speed than the camera, it was necessary to start the recorder first. the operator would call "speed" when operating speed was reached, the camera would then be started and a clapperboard (or slate) was then struck before the scene was filmed. this "slate" provided a visual and aural reference point for later synchronisation of the film with the tape (for screening, editing, etc.). all editing stages were (and still are) carried out on magnetic sprocketed tape, with the optical sound track being struck only on the final prints. as the state of the art progressed and more portable cine cameras evolved, the sprocketed tape recorders became too cumbersome for location filming. in their place, standard · inch tape recorders were utilized, with the addition of,a "pilot-track" to record the exact speed at which the tape passed the recording head. this pilot track contains an intermittent pulse which acts as "electronic sprocket holes". the pulse can be supplied either by a synch-pulse generator attached to the camera or, of late, by a crystal oscillator contained within the recorder. the former method "slaves" the recorder to the actual speed of the camera (as transmitted by the synch-pulse-generator) while the latter requires that both the camera and recorder speeds are controlled by crystal oscillators which are v y accurate speed-control devices. once recorded, tbe tape is played back, through an electronic synchroniser, which "reads" the pulse and governs the playback speed of the recorder to exactly match the speed at which the tape was recorded. the sound is thus transferred to the sprocketed tape, as used in the earlier system, so thuf one frame of sound equals one frame of picture. although e field equipment has been vastly improved, the traditional operating systems have been retained. the recorder is still started first, the operator advises "speed", the camera is started and a clapper-board (slate) is struck before the scene progresses. as more sound tape is recorded than filn exposed it is necessary, under this system, to slate each take to provide the editor with a reference point for synchronisation of each take. "synching the rushes" thus becomes a tedious and time-consuming task, with each sound-take necessarily being trimmed to match the length of the film-take. in documentary production, where each roll of film can contain anything up to eighty or ninety takes, a great deal of time is expended on this task,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims      "improved    means for obtaining synchronous sound filming"  1. apparatus for recording on cinematographic film and magnetic sound tape (11) visual and aural impressions of a plurality of scenes, comprising a camera (7) with a manual control (9) for repeated advancement for successive ones of said scenes of film for exposure thereof, and a magnetic tape recorder (8) for recording on the tape said aural impressions and including    o    control (15) for initiating advancement of the tape, the apparatus being characterised by a device (4) having means (rla) for responding to actuation of said manual control of the camera to operate the tape-advancing control, and incorporating time delay means   (c1)    whereby operation of the tape-advancing control is effected only after a predetermined delay.    2. apparatus as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that said operating means is deenergised to halt tape advancement without delay upon de-actuation of said manual control of the camera.    3. apparatus as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that the device is incorporated within the casing of the tape recorder and response to the manual control of the camera is via a radio link.    4. apparatus as claimed in claim 1, 2 or 3 characterised in that the device incorporates a manual master switch (12) for selecting whether the device is operatively connected with the recorder or disconnected therefrom.    5. apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterised in that switching on delay for the tapeadvance control is obtained through the charging time of a first capacitor   (c1)    via a time-constant circuit (r4, r5 and   c1),    and switching off of the tape-advancing control is through instantaneous discharge of the capacitor.    6. apparatus as claimed in claim 5, characterised in that said operating means for the tape-advancing control is a relay (rla) operated in response to the charge stored in the capacitor above a threshold voltage.    7. apparatus as claimed in claim 5 or 6, characterised in that a second capacitor (c2) responds to discharge of the first capacitor to produce an electrical pulse transmitted for recording on the tape, a sound which is synchronised with the  halting of the camera run.    8. apparatus for obtaining synchronised recording of picture and sound on respective recording media comprising manually controlled first means (9) for advancing the picture recording medium, and second means (15) initiating advancement of the sound recording medium, and being characterised by delayed control means (rla) responsive to activation of said first means to activate said second means after a predetermined delay.    9. sound recording apparatus comprising magnetic tape and storage spools therefor, drive means commencing advancement of the tape in response to a control device, and a transducer for recording upon said tape, said apparatus being characterised by a device responding to an electrical signal to actuate said control device, said device including a time delay circuit whereby actuation of said control device occurs a predetermined interval after receipt of said electrical signal.     10. a method of maintaining synchronism between magnetic sound recording tape and cinematographic film during the filming with sound of plural scenes and after synchronisation has been initially established, it being a characteristic of a camera exposing said film that it possesses less over-run than a sound recorder recording on said tape at the conclusion of each scene, said method being characterised in that commencement of recording upon said tape is delayed, by an amount depending upon the difference in the over-run, behind start of the film run in said camera with the commencement of each scene.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
