<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0012037
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800611
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
F23C-7/06 F28D-20/00 F16L-59/147 F23M-5/00 F24J-2/51 F23C-7/00 F24J-2/00 F16L-59/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
method of thermal insulation of a hot medium and installation for carrying out the method.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
melamed avrahamil<sep>wirguin joseph menachemil<sep>melamed, avraham<sep>wirguin, joseph menachem<sep>melamed, avraham31 haoranim streetkfar shemaryahuil <sep>wirguin, joseph menachem40 king george streetjerusalemil   <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
melamed avraham<sep>melamed, avraham<sep>melamed, avraham31 haoranim streetkfar shemaryahuil<sep>wirguin, joseph menachem40 king george streetjerusalemil<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
thermal insulation of a hot medium.  the hot medium to  be insulated is shielded by an enclosure within a porous  medium (4,6,7) and a heat-absorbing fluid is flown counter-­ convectively and counter-conductively thereacross towards  the hot medium.  possible applications of the thermal insula­ tion may be to solar ponds, hollow spaces, heat accumulators,  pipes and combustion chambers.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
thermal insulation of hot media the present invention concerns a method and means for thermal insulation of a hot medium. the expression "hot medium" used herein signifies any gaseous or liquid material or a mixture of such materials (containing also, if desired, solid matter) that is to be thermally insulated, the term "hot" being used in the relative cl, signifying that the insulated matter has a higher temperature than its surroundings. conventionally, for thermal insulation, insulating material is used. for example, a hot medium to be insulated is contained in an impermeable container and the latter is enrobed in a layer of insulating material having a low coefficient of thermal conductivity, a structure by which convective currents therethrough (mostly air currents) are prevented, and being resistant to the temperature to which it is exposed. the costs of an insulating material meeting all these requirements, may on occasions be high. moreover, even with the best of insulators, heat transfer across it can only be reduced and is never quite avoided. as m-'ntioned, in the conxtentional inculation methods convection across the insulator is practically eliminated and any residual heat transfer occurs mainly by conduction and to a minor extent by radiation. the present invention is based on the realization that if, in complete departure from conventional concepts, the hot medium is juxtaposed to a permeable body and a heatabsorbing fluid is caused to flow through such body towards the hot medium, heat losses from the latter can practically be avoided. based on this realization, the invention consists in a method of thermal insulation of a hot medium comprising juxtaposing the hot medium to a permeable body and causing a heat-absorbing fluid to flow counterconvectively and counterconductively across said permeable body towards the hot medium under a pressure higher than that of the hot medium. in the following the permeable body will be referred to as "passive insulator" and the heat-absorbing fluid flowing therethrough as "active insulator". the active insulator may be in gaseous or liquid form. in order to ensure the flowing of the active insulator across the passive insulator in the direction of the hot medium, a pressure gradient across the passive insulator must be permanently maintained. the difference between the pressures at both sides of the passive insulator must at all times be sufficient to overcome the flow resistance of the passive insulator, which resistance varies inversely with the permeability of the passive insulator. such pressure gradient can be established in different ways. for example, where ambient air serves as the active insulator, the hot medium may be put under sub-atmospheric pressure so that air flow across the passive insulator is by suction. or where water, for example, is used as the active insulator and the passive insulator is in the form of a hollow body holding the hot medium in its inner space, such body may be submerged in a container, a water course or a lake at a depth sufficient to set up the required pressure gradient. in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims   1. a method of thermal insulation of a hot medium comprising juxtaposing the hot medium to a permeable body (passive insulator) and causing a heat-absorbing fluid (active insulator) to flow counterconvectively and counterconductively across said permeable body towards said hot medium under a pressure higher than that of the hot medium.   2. a method according to claim 1, wherein an active insulator fluid is injected into soil that is in heat conductive contact with a thermal pond which soil serves as passive insulator, such as to flow towards said pond.   3. a method according to claim 2, wherein the soil is sealed beyond the layer at which the active insulator is injected thereby to prevent escape of the latter.   4. a method according to claim 2 or 3, wherein collector means are provided for collecting heated active insulator fluid.   5. a method according to any one of claims 2 to   4    wherein said active insulator fluid is an aqueous brine and after completing its passage through the soil it is charged into the pond.   6. a method according to claim 5, wherein the bottom and walls of the pond are permeable and the heated brine serving as active insulator flows directly into the pond.   7. a method according to claims 2 and 5, wherein the pond is liquid impermeable and hot brine is flown into tne pond from said collector means.     8. a method according to claim 1, wherein the passive insulator is associated with an impermeable wall to prevent flow of the active insulator away from the passive insulator.   9. a method according to claim 8, wherein said wall encases the passive insulator.   10. a method according to claim 8 or 9, wherein a space is provided between the outer   wall,    and the passive insulator, and active insulator is fed into such space.   11. a method according to any one of claims 8 to 10, wherein said impermeable wall is conventionally insulated.   12. a method according to any one of claims 1 and 8 to 11, wherein the hot medium is confined between a heat source and a passive insulator body.   13. a method according to any one of claims 1 and 8 to 11, wherein the hot medium is located in a hollow space within the passive insulator.   14. a method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein at least one solid body is placed within the hot medium.   15. a method according to claim 14, wherein said body is an impermeable container which, if desired, may be conventionally insulated.   16. an installation for carrying out the method according to claim 1 comprising a passive insulator body (as herein defined), means for confining a hot medium in juxtaposition to the passive insulator body and means for causing an active insulator (as herein defined) to flow across the passive insulator body towards the hot medium.     17. an installation according to claim 16 being a thermal pond provided with means for the injection of an active insulator fluid into the soil around the pond and at a distance therefrom and for inducing a controlled flow of said fluid towards the pond.   18. an installation according to claim 17 wherein the bottom and side walls or the pond are permeable and said means for injection of active insulator fluid are designed to cause said fluid to penetrate the pond.   19. an installation according to claim 16 being a pebble bed provided with means for the injection of an active insulator fluid into the soil around the pond and at a distance therefrom and for inducing a controlled flow of said fluid towards the pond.   20. an installation according to   claim    16 adapted for placing at least one solid body in contact with the hot medium.   21. an installation according to   clair    20, wherein said body is an impermeable container which, if desired, may be conventionally insulated.   22. an installation according to any one of claims 16, 20 and 21, wherein the passive insulator comprises a hollow space for containing the hot medium.   23. an installation accordinc to any one of claims 16 and 20 to 22, wherein an impermeable wall is associated with the passive insulator body adapted to prevent flow of the active insulator away from the passive insulator.   24. an installation according to   claim    23, wherein said wall encases the passive insulator body.     25. an installation according to claim 23 or 24, wherein a space is formed between said wall and passive insulator body, means being provided for feeding active insulator into said space.   26. an installation according to claims 16 and 23 being a porous pipe surrounded by an   imper: eable    casing which pipe is adapted to conduct a   'ot    fluid.    27. an installation according to claims 16, 20 and 23 being a heat accumulator the hot medium of which contains a mass of heat accumulating bodies.   28. an installation according to claim 27, wherein the external part of the mass of heat-absorbing bodies serves as passive insulator.   29. an installation according to claims 16 and 23 being a combustion chamber contained within a porous casing.   30. an installation according to claims 16 and 23 comprising a tubular casing, a   siral    tubular coil with spacing protrusions serving as passive insulator body and an inner space within said coil for holding the hot medium, the said spiral tubular coil being a single, double or multiple coil.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
