<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0005008
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19791031
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
H01B-3/18 C10N-40/16 C10N-20/04 C10M-111/04 H01B-3/22 H01B-3/20 C10M-111/02 C10M-111/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
liquid blend of insulating oils having a flat molecular weight distribution curve.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
rte corpus<sep>rte corporation<sep>rte corporation1900 east north streetwaukesha, wisconsin, 53186us<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
olmsted john haferus<sep>olmsted, john hafer<sep>olmsted, john hafer16116 west eldorado drivenew berlin wisconsin 53151us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a liquid composition and method for forming the  composition, the composition being intended for use in an  oil-filled electrical apparatus to minimize the detrimental  effects that can occur during high fault conditions which oil  composition is biodegradable and formed from natural  hydrocarbons and synthetic hydrocarbons which when  combined form a flat pseudo-rectangular molecular weight  distribution curve.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
title: high fire point dielectric insulating fluid having a flat molecular weight distribution curve. this invention relates to a high fire point dielectric insulating fluid having a flat molecular weight distribution curve. in united states patent no. 4,082,866 entitled "method of use and electrical equipment utilizing oil consisting of a saturated hydrocarbon oil", certain highly refined petroleum oil and mineral oils were disclosed which were considered sufficiently nonflammable to serve as insulating oil substitutes for polychlorinated byphenyls in electrical equipment. the essence of this invention was the avoidance of terminal olifenic bonds and significant advantages with respect to dealing with the problems associated with catastrophic failure in electrical apparatus. the insulating oil was additionally characterized as being of any average molecular weight between 500 and 700, having a fire point about 2000c, and remaining liquid down to near 00. within those boundary conditions, it has been found that considerable differences exist in the usefulness of various oils considered for this purpose. the most obvious of these was the difference in pour point associated with the degree of dewaxing performed on the base fluids from which the oil was produced. also the flash and fire points of a hydrocarbon dielectric oil can be increased by selectively distilling the lower molecular weight components from the oil having discovered these differences in the various oils, it was decided to determine the aggregate effect on the physical and electrical properties obtained by blending the various oils. the un-anticipated effects of blending on these properties was explained as being the result of filling the voids between molecules in the various liquid blends with other molecules in the blend. in other words, it is believed that the dissimilar molecules fit together into a more compact higher density structure which produced the unanticipated improvements in the physical and chemical properties of these blends. this invention is related to the selective blending of natural and synthetic hydrocarbons of different molecular weights and molecular weight distributions in order to achieve a flat (essentially rectangular) molecular weight distribution curve of the final blend. the resulting improvements in the physical and chemical properties attributed to this process are improved fundamental electrical strength properties, increased arc recovery capabilities, and increased tolerance to residual high molecular weight waxes. this latter effect is particularly pronounced in the temperature region at and below the cloud point. blending also improves the compatibility of the oil with convention insulating oils. this does not refer to chemical compatibility, but rather to physical mixing processes where the two materials are intentionally or inadvertently mixed. this is a direct result of the increase in specific gravity of the blend, bringing it into close proximity to that associated with conventional transformer oil. according to one aspect of the present invention there is provided a method for producing a blend of oils having a substantially equal molecular weight density within predetermined molecular weight boundaries, said method comprising the steps of establishing for a pre determined quantity of blended oil a pseudo-rectangular molecular
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:   1. a method for producing a blend of oils having a substantially equal molecular weight density within predetermined molecular weight boundaries, said method comprising the steps of establishing for a predetermined quantity of blended oil a pseudo-rectangular molecular weight distribution curve having predetermined molecular weight limits, determining the molecular weight distribution curves for equal quantities of a number of candidate oils, selecting from the distribution curves for the candidate oils a first curve that fills a portion of the established pseudo-rectangular distribution curve, selecting from the remaining distribution curves for the candidate oils those curves which when combined with the selected first curve and with each other fill the remaining portions of the pseudo-rectangular curve and blending the quantities of oils represented by the selected curves.   2. a method according to claim 1, including the step of normalizing the quantities of the oils represented by the selected distribution curves to the predetermined quantity represented by the pseudo-rectangular curve.      3.    a method according to either claim 1 or claim 2, including the step of shortening the high molecular weight end of the distribution curve for the blended oils by solvent extraction to substantially conform the curve of the blended oils to the curve of the pseudo-rectangular distribution curve at the high molecular weight end.   4. a method according to any one of claims 1 to 3, including the step of shortening the low molecular weight end of the distribution curve for the blended oil.   5. a method according to any one of claims 1 to 4 for  producing a blend of oils intended for use in an oil filled electrical apparatus, wherein the pseudorectangular molecular weight distribution curve has molecular weight limits of 500 to 700.   6. a liquid blend intended for use in an oil-filled electrical apparatus to minimise the detrimental effects that can occur during high fault conditions wherein the oil composition is a biodegradable and environmentally safe oil and consists essentially of a blend of oils including a natural saturated hydrocarbon oil and a synthetic aliphatic hydrocarbon oil, said blend having a substantially equal molecular weight density in the range molecular weight range of about 500 to about 700, a fire point above 2000c. and a pour point near   ooc.      7. a liquid blend as claimed in claim 6, wherein said blend includes two natural hydrocarbons having a mean molecular weight of approximately 570 and a mean molecular weight of approximately 420 and the synthetic hydrocarbon has an average molecular weight of 620.   8. a liquid blend intended for use in an oil-filled electrical apparatus to minimize the detrimental effects that can occur during high fault conditions, wherein the liquid blend consists essentially of a blend of oils including one natural saturated hydrocarbon oil and two synthetic saturated aliphatic hydrocarbon oils, said oils being selected to provide a substantially equal molecular weight density in the molecular weight range of 500 to 700.    9. a liquid blend as claimed in claim 8, wherein said blend has a pseudo-rectangular molecular weight distribution curve.     10. a liquid blend as claimed in either claim 8 or    0 claim 9, wherein said blend has a fire point above 200 c     0 and a pour point near   ooc.      11. a liquid blend intended for use in an oil-filled apparatus wherein the liquid blend consists essentially of a natural hydrocarbon oil of different molecular weight groups having different molecular weight distributions, said groups being selected to provide a substantially flat molecular weight distribution curve having a predetermined molecular weight range from 500 to 700 whereby a pseudo-rectangular shaped molecular weight curve is produced.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
