<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0011733
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800611
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
C22C-38/00 H01F-41/02 H01F-1/153 C22C-19/00 H01F-1/12 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
magnetic core winding method and apparatus.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
allied corpus<sep>allied corporation<sep>allied corporationcolumbia road and park avenue p.o. box 2245r (law dept.)morristown new jersey 07960us<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
mas joseph augustusus<sep>mas, joseph augustus<sep>mas, joseph augustus35 north star drivemorristown, new jersey 07960us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a method for forming a magnetic core around a pre­ wound wire coil involves: passing an end of a strip of mag­ netically permeable metal through the center of the coil and  forming it into a loop encircling the wire coil through its  center; revolving the loop to wind the strip onto the loop  until it has the desired thickness of the magnetic core to be  formed; retracting the strip from the coil to reduce its circum­ ference and to draw it tightly around the coil to form the  magnetic core; followed by severing the core from the  retracted strip.  apparatus for the practice of the method is  provided.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
invention: magnetic core winding method and apparatus background of the invention the present invention relates to the manufacture of electromagnetic induction devices, such as transformers, transducers and the like and, more particularly, to the manufacture of toroidally wound magnetic cores for such devices. it is generally known that electromagnetic induction devices, such as transformers, having a toroidally wound core tightly encircling one or more wire coils of the apparatus have high efficiency, because they require less exciting current to establish a given flux as compared to cores constructed by other methods, such as e-i laminations or gapped wound cores. such devices employing toroidally wound cores have not found wide use because of difficulties in their manufacture. it is an object of the present invention to provide a method and apparatus for making toroidally wound magnetic cores for electromagnetic induction devices, wherein the core is formed around a pre-wound wire coil.. because of its simplicity and efficiency, this method is suitable for large-scale manufacturing operations. summary of the invention the present invention relates to fabrication of electromagnetic induction devices having at least one magnetic core and at least one wire coil, and involves forming a toroidally wound magnetic core around at least one prewound wire coil. the magnetic core is formed from a strip of magne- tically permeable metal. a terminal portion of this strip is passed through the center (window) of the prewound wire coil, and it is formed into a loop encircling the wire coil through its center. the loop may be formed, for example, by attaching the terminal portion of the strip to the strip ahead of the coil, as by means of adhesives or adhesive tape, or spot welding. next, the loop is revolved to wind the strip onto the loop to form a loop coil having the thickness of the desired final core. when the loop coil has reached that thickness, strip is retracted from the loop coil while preventing retraction of the end of the strip at the terminal portion in the center of the loop, to thereby reduce the circumference of the loop and to draw it tightly around the prewound wire coil to form the magnetic core. thereafter, the strip is severed from the core and the free end of the strip on the outside of the core is attached to the core, as by spot welding, by use of adhesives or adhesive tape, or by means of a sleeve, to prevent unraveling of the core. toroidally wound cores made by this method tightly encircle the wire coil and thus provide for the shortest possible magnetic length. further, since the core is wound from a continuous strip, there are no air gaps in the magnetic circuit. consequently, maximum magnetic flux can be carried through the coil with minimum magnetic length and minimum exciting current. the strip which is formed into the toroidally wound core in accordance with my invention is composed of magnetically soft material. such materials desirably have the following combination of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
i claim:    1. in the fabrication of an electromagnetic device having at least one magnetic core and at least one wire coil, the method of forming a magnetic core around the prewound wire coil, which comprises:  (a) passing a terminal portion of a strip of magnetically permeable metal through the center of the prewound wire coil and forming said terminal portion into a loop encircling the wire coil through the center thereof;  (b) revolving said loop around its axis normal to the plane in which the loop lies to wind the strip into a strip coil having the desired thickness of the magnetic coil to be formed;  (c) retracting the strip from the strip coil while preventing retraction of the end of the strip at said terminal portion to thereby reduce the circumference of the.   strip coil and to draw it tightly around the prewound wire coil to form the magnetic core; and  (d) severing the formed core from the retracted strip.    2. the method of claim 1 wherein the strip of magnetically permeable metal is a strip of amorphous magnetic alloy which is at least 50 percent amorphous, as determined by x-ray diffraction.    3. the method of claim 2 wherein the alloy has the composition  (fe, co,   ni)70-90      to-15       10-25    wherein t is at least one of the transition metal elements, and x is at least one of the elements of phosphorus, boron and carbon.    4. the method of claim 1 wherein two magnetic cores are simultaneously wound around a pair of pre-wound wire coils.    5. an apparatus for winding a magnetic core of strip of magnetically permeable metal around a prewound wire coil comprising, in combination:  (a) a base;  (b) holding means mounted on said base for holding the prewound wire coil;    (c) driven winding means mounted on said base for engaging a loop of strip of magnetically permeable metal which encircles the prewound wire coil through its center as the coil is being held by said holding means, and for revolving said loop around its axis normal to the plane in which the loop lies, and adapted to be disengaged and withdrawn from said loop;  (d) retracting means associated with said base for withdrawing strip from the formed wound loop to reduce the circumference of the loop; and  (e) means for engaging the end of the strip within the loop and to hold it to prevent retraction thereof while strip is being retracted from said loop.     6. the apparatus of claim 5 wherein the driven winding means comprise a pair of spaced apart driven winding rollers over which the strip of magnetically permeable metal is looped.    7. the apparatus of claim 5 employing duplicate driven winding means and retracting means adapted for simultaneously winding a pair of magnetic cores around at least one prewound wire coil.    8. the apparatus of claim 7 wherein the duplicate winding means each comprise a set of at least two winding rollers, at least one of which is driven, and each of which is adapted to engage a loop of strip of magnetically permeable metal looped around it.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
