<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0016626
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19801001
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
F02D-31/00 B60K-17/28 B60K-17/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
vehicles equipped with power take-off output shaft speed control apparatus.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
fidus controlsgb<sep>fidus controls limited  <sep>fidus controls limitedheddon way middlefields industrial estatesouth shields tyne and wear, ne34 ontgb<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
brown derekgb<sep>brown, derek<sep>brown, derek7 southlands eighton banksgateshead 9 tyne and wear ne9 7bpgb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
where power take-off apparatus is driven by an internal  combustion engine (10), the rate of rotation of the power  take-off output shaft (17) is usually controlled by means of a  manual or foot control arrangement.  however, especially in  the case of the engine being of the fuel injection type, such  control may be coarse and, as a result, it may be difficult to  maintain the desired steady engine speed.  control apparatus  is now provided comprising a sensor (18) producing pulses  at a rate proportional to the rate of rotation of the power  take-off output shaft (17), a control unit (20) which receives  the pulses and distinguishes between rates above and below  at least one reference rate by responding to the time  between successive pulses, and an electromechanical  actuator arrangement (21) which acts on a fuel flow control  (22).  the control unit (20) provides an output signal which  determines whether or not the fuel flow control (22) operates  to reduce the flow rate of the fuel to the engine (10).  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
vehicles equipped with power take-off apparatus this invention relates to vehicles equipped with power take-off apparatus. motor vehicles are known which have an internal combustion engine of the injection type which uses diesel oil or gasoline and consequently has a fuel pump for controlling the rate of flow of fuel to the engine, the vehicle being equipped with power take-off apparatus which can be driven by this engine. there is, however, a difficulty involved in the use of the power take-off apparatus of such a vehicle in that the control over the rate of flow of fuel given by the usual manual or foot control arrangement for the fuel pump is very coarse in the middle range of rates rotation of the engine output shaft. fig 1 of the accompanying drawings shows an example of engine speed in r.p.m. against fuel input for an injection engine. it will be seen that control is good at low and high r.p.m. but very difficulty in the range between 1,000 r.p.m. and 2,000 r.p.m. the present invention has arisen out of an attempt to overcome this difficulty in a way which does not involve the use of very complex and expensive fuel pumps which, while being satisfactory for power take-off requirements, are detrimental to the road performance of the vehicle where the engine is the engine which drives the powered road wheels of the vehicle. however, the invention is not limited to use in connection with vehicles employing injection engines for driving power take-off apparatus but applies whether the engine is either of the injection type or has other means controlling the flow of fuel to the engine, and applies whether or not the engine which is used to drive the power take-off apparatus is the sane engine which drives road wheels of the vehicle. the present invention applies to a vehicle having an internal combustion engine and means for controlling the rate of flow of fuel to the said engine in operation, the vehicle being equipped with power take-off apparatus including a rotary power take-off output shaft which can be driven by the said engine. in accordance with the invention, means are provided for sensing rotation of the said output shaft and producing in response thereto a repetitive signal in which the duration of the repeated element is inversely related to the rate of rotation of the said output shaft, and electrical control means are coupled to the sensing means to receive the repetitive signal and so are coupled to the means for controlling the rate of supply of fuel that in use whenever the rate of rotation of the said output shaft exceeds a predetermined value when increasing from zero, the electrical control means so operate that the means for controlling the rate of supply of fuel responds by reducing the rate of supply of fuel. the electrical control means may be such that the means for controlling the rate of supply of fuel does not allow the rate of supply
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims   1. a vehicle comprising:  an internal combustion engine,  a fuel supply for said engine, flow rate controlling means for controlling the flow rate of fuel to said engine,  power take-off means coupled to said engine to be driven thereby, and a power take-off output shaft in said power take-off means,  characterised by  means (18) for sensing rotation of said output shaft (17) and producing in response thereto a repetitive signal in which the repeated element is inversely related to the rate of rotation of said output shaft (17),  and electrical control means (20) coupled to said sensing means (18) to receive therefrom said repetitive signal and so coupled to said means (22) for controlling the rate of flow of fuel as to cause said flow rate controlling means (22) to reduce said flow rate whenever the rate of rotation of said output shaft (17) exceeds a predetermined value when increasing from zero.   2. a vehicle according to claim 1, wherein said electrical control means (20) includes timing means (25) adapted to distinguish between the duration of the said repeated element of the repetitive signal when the said rate of rotation is increasing from zero and is below the said predetermined rate and the duration of the said repeated element when the said rate of rotation is increasing from zero and exceeds the said predetermined rate.   3. a vehicle according to claim 2, wherein said timing means (25) is further adapted to distinguish between the duration of said repeated element when the said rate of rotation is decreasing from above the said predetermined rate but is above a further predetermined rate, and the duration of said repeated element when the said rate of rotation is decreasing from above the first said predetermined rate and is below the said further predetermined rate.     4. a vehicle according to claim 3, wherein said timing means (25) comprises an astable multivibrator tic2, c2,   vr1,    r6, vr2, r7,   r8)    so coupled to said means (18) for sensing rotation as to be inhibited for a predetermined interval at each occurrence of one part of the said repeated element of the repetitive signal, and a monostable circuit   (ic3,    r9, c4) so coupled to the astable multivibrator (ic2, c2, vr1, r6, vr2, r9,   r8)    as to be triggered into or maintained in the set state of the monostable circuit (ic3, r9, c4) by each occurrence of at least part of a cycle of astable operation of the astable multivibrator,  the said predetermined interval being of shorter duration than the time for which the monostable circuit can remain in its set state in response to a single triggering thereof, and said monostable circuit providing a binary output signal representative of its state.   5. a vehicle according to claim 4, wherein feedback means (tr3, d4,   r13,      r12,    tr2) are provided between the monostable circuit (c3, r9, c4) and the astable multivibrator (ic2, c2,   #      vr1    r6, vr2, r9,   r8)    which in response to the binary output signal of the monostable circuit determine the duration of said predetermined interval.   6. a vehicle according to any preceding claim, wherein said electrical control means (20) operates such as to prevent said flow rate controlling means (22) from increasing said flow rate after said rate of rotation exceeds said   predetirmined    value until said rate of rotation falls¯below a further predetermined value which is lower than the first said predetermined value.   7. a vehicle according to any preceding claim, wherein said electrical control means (20) is such that whenever said rate of rotation exceeds a higher predetermined value above the first said predetermined value, said electrical control means (20) responds by causing said flow rate controlling means (22) to further   reduce    said flow rate.     8.   a      venice    according to any preceding claim, wherein said flow rate controlling means (22) includes a mechanical member  (35 or 49 or 62) operable by a user to control said flow rate whenever said rate of rotation is increasing from zero and below said predetermined value.   9. a vehicle according to any preceding claim, wherein said means for sensing rotation and producing in response thereto a repetitive signal comprises pulse generating means (18, 24).   10. a vehicle according to claim 4, wherein said monostable circuit   (ic3,    r9, c4) is so coupled to electrically energisable means   (we1)    that the energisation of said electrically energisable means   (rl1)    is dependent on the presence of one of the levels of the said binary signal, and the electrically energisable means   (fl1)    is adapted to control said flow rate controlling means (22).   11. a vehicle according to claim 10, wherein said electrically energisable means comprise a relay   (rl1)    having a set (rl1-2) of contacts which is adapted to control the supplying of electrical tower to a solenoid (32) comprising part of said flow rate controlling means   (22).         12.      h    motor vehicle equipped with power take-off apparatus driven by an internal   combustion    engine and including a rotary power take-off output shaft, characterised by:  a sensor (18) arranged and adapted to produce pulses at a repetition rate proportional to the rate of rotation of said   rotary    output shaft   (17);    rate discriminating circuitry   (ic2,    c2,   volt    r6,   vr2,      r7;    r8) coupled to receive said pulses and discriminating between pulse repetition rates above and below at least one predetermined rate;  rate level indicating means   (ic3,      r9    c4) coupled to said rate discriminating means to provide a binary output signal indicative by the prevailing level thereof of the relation of the pulse repetition rate to said at least one predetermined rate; and   flow    rate control means (22) coupled to said rate level indicating means and responsive to said binary  output signal to control a flow of fuel to said internal   combustion    engine (10), said flow rate control means being such as to reduce said flow of fuel in response to the level of said binary output signal indicating a pulse repetition rate exceeding at least said one predetermined rate.   13. a   motor    vehicle according to claim 12, wherein said rate discriminating circuitry includes an astable multivibrator   (ic2,    c2, vr1, r6, vr2, r7,   r8)    so coupled to said sensor (18) as to be inhibited by pulse repetition rates exceeding said one predetermined rate, and said rate level indicating means includes a monostable circuit   (ic3),    r9- c4) so connected to said astable multivibrator as to reset only in response to said astable multivibrator being inhibited for a predetermined length of time.    14. a motor vehicle according to claim 13, wherein said sensor means includes an inductive sensor (18) so mounted   adjacent    a plurality of metal projections equiangularly disposed about and fixed to rotate with said rotary output shaft (17) as to produce on rotation of said rotary output shaft one pulse in response to each pass of each of said projections through the region of sensing associated with said   sensor     
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
