<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0006209
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800109
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<main>E04H-6/34</main> E04H-6/12 E04H-6/36 B65G-1/04 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
plant with mobile platforms for parking motor vehicles or the like.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
auro srlit<sep>au. ro. s.r.l.<sep>au. ro. s.r.l.via v. emanuelei-41 24100 bergamoit<sep>au. ro. s.r.l.<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
buttironi giovanni<sep>buttironi, giovanni<sep>buttironi, giovannivia zambianchi 4i-24100 bergamoit<sep>buttironi, giovanni  <sep>buttironi, giovanni via zambianchi 4i-24100 bergamoit<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
plant for storing motor vehicles (10) onto mobile platforms  (9), with a parking area comprising at least one long parking  stretch and a service track (4, 5, 6) parallel thereto; a motored  travelling wagon (7), mobile along said service track (4, 5, 6); a  plurality of parking places in said parking stretch, each being  provided with a stationing track (8) perpendicular to the service  track (4, 5, 6); a plurality of platforms (9) carrying the motor  vehicles (10) and being apt to slide on said stationing tracks (8)  and on said travelling wagon (7); a carriage with hook, which is  associated to and slidable onto the travelling wagon (7), for  hitching a platform (9) and transferring it from the stationing  track (8) onto the wagon (7) itself, or viceversa, from the wagon  (7) towards the stationing track (8).  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
"plant with mobile platforms for parking motor vehicles cr the like" it is known that there are at present various types of plants for parking motor vehicles - or, more generally, for storing pallets - wherein the motor vehicles, instead of being allowed to circulate on their own along access ramps up to the parking areas, are placed onto a parting platform, in correspondence of an inlet area, said platform being then shifted - automatically and along a set course - towards the parking area and being replaced by another platform in correspondence of the inlet area. in general, the basic scheme of these plants with mobile plat- forms - whether they are built in the open air or, more often, underground - comprises two parallel, adjacent, rectilinear tracks, pre ferably horizontal and arranged one above the other, and means for moving forward the platforms along said tracks in opposed directions and for transferring them, at the ends of the tracks, from one track to the other. according to one of the most known techniques, the platforms are tied one to the other, in succession, by a pair of chains with closed circuit, having both the function of dragging and guiding said platforms along said rectilinear tracks, and the function of supporting them during their transfer from one track to the other. according to a further technique - described also in the italian patents n. 532.983 and n. 907.540, in the mmc of the sane applicant - the platforms move along the rectilinear tracks simply coupled one to the other in a free mainer, while at the two ends of the tracks they are released and transferred, one at a tile, from one track to the other, by a pair of rotating arms. these types of plants, though having proved to be very efficient, are however subject to some limitations which do not make it possible or conrenicnt to use them in each case. above all, these types of plants have structures which are spe brolly fit for parking areas of large dimensions, or in which it is essential to take advantage of a space in height, but they are not equally fit for more modest parking areas, as used, for example, for serving a single building, in that: : - the powers installed, which would be modest for the mere motion of the platforms in the horizontal direction, would become high in relation to the means for transfering vertically the platform from one track to the other, - the most conplex structural part of the plant is that relating to the transfer means at the ends of the horizontal tracks, and - consequently, the costs for construction and maintenance of the plant - in asmuch as being essentially determined by the transfer means - are justified from the economical point of view only if they are distributed over a sufficiently tly large number of parked motor ve- hicles, that is, over a plant of large dimensions. the object of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims    1) plant for storing units, particularly motor vehicles, onto mobile platforms, characterized in that, over a storing or parking area comprising at least a long parking stretch and a parallel service corridor to the side of said parking stretch, there are provided: - a service track running along said service corridor, - at least one motored travelling wagon, mobile along said service track, - a plurality of storing or parking places in said parking stretch, each being provided with a stationing track with axis transversal to that of the service track, - a plurality of platforms sliding on said stationing tracks, as well as on said travelling wagon, and - transfer means, associated to said   travelling    wagon, for transferring said mobile platforms, each from the respective stationing track onto the actual travelling wagon,  or   viceversa    from the wagon towards   body    2 for covering the hook   21.       2) plant as in claim 1, wherein said transfer means comprise at least one carriage, mobile along the   traveling    wagon in a direction parallel to said stationing tracks, and a hook fixed to   nid    carriage to hitch the platform and drag it onto the wagon from the respective stationing track, or   viceversa,    to push it out of the   wagon    towards the respective stationing track.    3) plant as in claim 2, wherein said hook fixed to the transfer carriage consists of a vertically projecting tooth, apt to  engage into a u-shaped overturned channel section, being associated to the platform and extending in a direction parallel to the axis of the service track.    4) plant as in claim 3, wherein the u-shaped overturned channel sections, associated to a plurality of platforms resting onto the stationing tracks, are all aligned on an axis parallel to the axis of the service track.    5) plant as in claim 3, wherein said tooth projecting from the carriage is formed by a pin onto the upper end of which is mounted freely rotating a bearing.    6) plant as in claim 3, wherein said tooth projecting from the carriage is formed by a square bar or section, fixed to the carriage itself on an alignment parallel to that of the said u-shaped overturned channel section associated to the platform, said square bar or section having beveled ends.    7) plant as in claim 3, wherein said u-shaped overturned channel sections associated to the platforms have beveled ends.    8) plant as in claim 1, wherein said service track comprises a pair of rails having an isosceles triangle section, known per se,  with upward apex.    9) plant as in claim 1 or 8, wherein said service track comprises a pair of side rails and a flat central rail.    10) plant as in claim 1, wherein said trarelling wagon comprises motor means of its own for operating at least one pair of driving wheels.      11)    plant as in   claims    8 and 10, wherein said driving wheels have a groove with triangular profile complementary to that of the rails.    12) plant as in claim 1, wherein each of said platforms is sup    ported by idle wh wheels, each wheel pivoting about a pin projecting    towards the inside of the platform and being fix.ed to a bracket projecting downwards from the platform flatcar.    13) plant as in claim 1 or 12, wherein said stationing tracks comprise a pair of rails formed by c-shaped sections open towards the  outer side of the track.     14) plant as in claim 1 or 12, wherein to the sides of the travel   ling    wagon, arranged   parallel    to the axis of said stationing tracks, there are fixed two guides formed by c-shaped channel sections, open towards the outer side of the wagon.    15) plant as in claim 13 or 14, wherein said c-shaped guides are beveled at the ends to facilitate the introduction of the platform wheels.    16) plant as in anyone of the preceding claims, comprising two long parking stretches, arranged on either side of said service   cor-    ridor, and at least one travelling wagon to serve both of said parking stretches, on said wagon being   slidably    mounted two independent transfer carriages, each being apt to cooperate with the platforms placed on a single respective long parking stretch.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
