<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0006302
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800109
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B62D-61/00 B62D-61/08 B62D-61/06 B62D-21/16 B62D-21/00 B60K-17/10 B62D-21/18 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
vehicle with hydraulic drive means.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
nickerson turfmaster ltd gb<sep>nickerson turfmaster limited  <sep>nickerson turfmaster limitedmaldon, essexgb<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
lawrie robin buchanangb<sep>turnbull john renniegb<sep>lawrie, robin buchanan<sep>turnbull, john rennie<sep>lawrie, robin buchananauldearn rosebankby carluke lanarkshiregb<sep>turnbull, john rennie8 albion streetmotherwell lanarkshiregb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a vehicle comprises a chassis (1) supported on at  least three rotatable support members (2, 3, 4) and sup­ porting hydraulic drive means (2a, 3a, 4a) for hydraulically  driving at least one of the support members (2, 3, 4) and  means (5) for producing a flow of hydraulic fluid under  pressure.  to reduce the mass and complexity of the construction  of the vehicle, the chassis (1) comprises tubular section  members (7-12) which are internally connected to serve  as the reservoir for hydraulic fluid and/or for the distribu­ tion of hydraulic fluid between the means (5) to the drive  means (2a, 3a, 4a).  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
improvements in and relating to vehicles the present invention relates to improvements in vehicles and particularly to a vehicle comprising a chassis supported on at least three rotatable support members, hydraulic drive means for hydraulically driving at least one of said support members, and means for producing a flow of hydraulic fluid under pressure. in hydraulically driven vehicles, the pipework of the hydraulic circuit and the vessels for hydraulic fluid reservoirs are provided on a conventional chassis. this consequently substantially increases the mass of the vehicle and the complexity of its construction. to reduce the mass and complexity and therefore the cost the invention proposes to make the chassis of tubular section members and to use these members as the pipework of the hydraulic circuit and/or as the vessel for the hydraulic reservoir. according to one aspect of the invention the chassis comprises tubular section members which are internally connected together to serve for the distribution of hydraulic fluid between the or each hydraulic drive means and the means for producing a flow of hydraulic fluid under pressure. according to another aspect of the invention the chassis comprises at least one tubular section member which is internally connected to form a reservoir for hydraulic fluid. it will. be appreciated that the rotatable support members may for example be wheels or may be the driving rollers for endless belts on which the vehicle travels. the chassis preferably comprises a pair of longitudinally extending tubular section members connected adjacent the front and the rear of the vehicle by transversely extending tubular section members, each longitudinal member being connected to at least one of the transverse members and to one of the inlet and outlet of means for producing a flow of hydraulic fluid under pressure. preferably the tubular section member providing the hydraulic fluid reservoir forms a rollover protection bar. one embodiment of the present invention is described in detail below with reference to the accompanying drawings. in the drawings: figure 1 is a plan view of the main components of a chassis of an embodiment of a vehicle according to the present invention; figure 2 is an elevation of the chassis of the vehicle of figure 1; figure 3 is a diagrammatic view of the hydraulic distribution circuit of the vehicle of figure 1; figure 4 is an elevational view of an embodiment of means for coupling an implement to the front end of a vehicle; figure 5 is an elevational view of the implement and coupling means shown in figure il; figure 6 is a plan view of the attachment of figure 5; figure 7 is a diagrammatic view of the hydraulic control circuit of the coupling means of figure 4; ; figure 8 is an elevational view of another embodiment of menus for eouali.ng an implement to the front end of a vehicle; and figure 9 is a diagrammatic view of the hydraulic control circuit of the coupling means of figure 8. the vehicle shown in figures 1 to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims   1. a vehicle comprising a chassis (1) supported on at least three rotatable support members (2, 3, 4), hydraulic drive means (2a, 3a, 4a) for hydraulically driving at least one of said support members, and means (5, 6) for producing a flow of hydraulic fluid under pressure, characterised in that the chassis (1) comprises tubular section members (7-11) which are internally connected together to serve for the distribution of hydraulic fluid between the or each hydraulic drive means and the means (5, 6) for producing a flow of hydraulic fluid under pressure.   2. a vehicle as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that the chassis (1) comprises a pair of longitudinally extending tubular section members (7) connected adjacent the front and the rear of the vehicle by  transversely extending tubular section members (8, 9 and 10, 11), each longitudinal member (7) being internally connected to at least one of the transverse members   (8 11)    and to one of the inlet and outlet of the means (5, 6) for producing a flow of hydraulic fluid under pressure.   3. a vehicle as claimed in claim 2, characterised in that the hydraulic drive means (2a, 3a, 4a) associated with the or each hydraulically driven rotatable support member (2, 3, 4) is hydraulically connected to each longitudinal member (7).      vehicle    as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterised in that the chassis (1) includes a tubular section member (12) which is connected as a hydraulic fluid reservoir.     5. a vehicle comprising a chassis (1) supported on at least three rotatable support members (2, 3, 4), hydraulic drive means (2a, 3a, 4a) for hydraulically driving at least one of the support members (2, 3, 4), and means (5, 6) for producing a flow of hydraulic fluid under pressure, characterised in that the chassis   (1)    comprises at least one tubular section member (12) which is internally connected to form a reservoir for hydraulic fluid.   6. a vehicle as claimed in either claim 4 or claim 5, characterised in that the tubular section member forms a rollover protection bar (12).   7. a vehicle as claimed in any of the preceding claims, characterised in that the rotatable support members (2, 3, 4) are wheels.   8. a vehicle as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 6, characterised in that the rotatable support members are arranged to drive endless belts by which the vehicle bears on the ground.      9    a vehicle as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterised in that all the support   member    (2, 3, 4) are hydraulically   driven.      10. a vehicle as claimed in any one of the preceding claims including means at the front end thereof for attachment of an implement to be driven thereby, characterised in that the means comprise a pair of spaced apart members (20 or 20') mounted on the chassis for pivotal movement about a horizontal axis perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the vehicle, each member (20 or 20') carrying coupling means (27 or 27') for  coupling to an implement (19 or 19'), the coupling means (27 or 27') permitting limited universal movement relative thereto, and means (23 or 23') for controlling the angular positions of the members (20 or 20') about the horizontal axis.   11. a vehicle as claimed in   claim    10, characterised in that the   means (23    or 23') for controlling the angular positions of the members (20 or 20') comprise cylinder and piston means in respect of each member and selectively connectable to a source of fluid under pressure and to each other.   12. a vehicle as claimed in either claim 10 or claim 11, characterised in that each coupling means (27 or 27') comprises part of a ball and socket joint.   13. a vehicle as claimed in any one of claims 10 to 12, including an implement (19) detachably connected to the coupling means (27 or 27'), characterised in that the implement (19 or 19') comprises at least one ground engaging member (30 or 35).    14. a vehicle as claimed in claim 13, characterised in that the coupling means (27, 27') comprise ball and socket joints of which the balls (26 or 26') are mounted on the members (20 or 20') and the sockets (29 or 29') are fixed to the implement (19 or 19').   15. a vehicle as claimed in either claim 13 or claim 14, characterised in that the means (23 or 23') for controlling the angular positions of the members (20, 20') about the horizontal axis comprise cylinder and piston means connectable to a source of fluid under  pressure for moving the implement between operative and inoperative positions and connectable together to permit the implement (19 or 19') to tilt about the longitudinal axis of the vehicle.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
