<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0012476
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800625
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
C02F-3/28 <main>C02F-3/28</main> 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
a process and apparatus for anaerobic conversion of organic material in an aqueous medium.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
stork amsterdamnl<sep>stork amsterdam b.v.<sep>stork amsterdam b.v.2 ketelstraatnl-1021 jz amsterdamnl<sep>stork amsterdam b.v.<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
van drooge barend lodewijk<sep>van drooge, barend lodewijk<sep>van drooge, barend lodewijk48, gerrit v.d. veenstraatnl-1077 eg amsterdamnl<sep>van drooge, barend lodewijk  <sep>van drooge, barend lodewijk 48, gerrit v.d. veenstraatnl-1077 eg amsterdamnl<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
organic material having a high bacteria concentration  in an aqueous medium, is subjected to an aenerobic con足 version, in order to abtain methane gas and valuable bac足 teria sludge.  said conversion occurs in a fermentation ves足 sel (1) comprising a plurality of successive superimposed  precipitation spaces (5, 5a, 5b, 5c), each space comprising  a gas outlet (6) and a sludge outlet (11).  the precipitation  spaces are surrounded by an annular fermentation vessel-足 space (9).  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
a process and apparatus for anaerobic conversion of organic material in an aqueous medium. the invention relates to a process and apparatus for anaerobic conversion of organic material in an aqueous medium. the advantages of purifying waste water by an anaerobic purification are manifold, since this process provides on the one hand a valuable and non-polluting gas in the form of methane, while on the other hand a sludge is produced which may be used as fodder, in view of the fact that the produced sludge is comparable with one-cell proteins. unfortunately known anaerobic purification processes cannot possibly be applied in practice as the residence time of the waste water to be purified in the respective device, is far too long. recently the minimum residence times of waste water to be purified by an anaerobic purification have been reduced by a maximum factor of 100, owing to the use of a two-stage system, consisting of an acidification stage and a fermentation stage during which the final purification is performed. such acidification thereby is a rapidly proceeding process having a rate of about 1 kg chemical oxygen demand (cod)/kg sludge/h at a bacteria-concentration of 5% i.e. 50 kg cod/m/h at 35 0c and of 70 kg cod/m3/h at a temperature of 0 50 c. for substrates such as proteins which are difficukly to be hydrolised, said velocities are about 10 times lower. the conversion of celluloselignine complexes, however, proceeds optimally at a temperature of about 500c. at any rate sugars and starch forming the main environmental pollution problems are rapidly converted by means of such methods. such an acidification stage offers the disadvantage, however, that during acidification, the acidity decreases too much, so that this acidification does not proceed in an optimal way. in the second stage of the process as mentioned hereinbefore, the methane fermentation proceeds in a methane-fermentation reactor the methane-forming-sludge being regularly recovered from the lower side of the methane fermentation vessel, said sludge being used as initiator in other reactors, while from the upper side of the reactor the formed methane and the purified waste water will be discharged. this method presents the disadvantage that during the anaerobic purification the liquid in the reactor will be stirred vigorously by the gas formed during said anaerobic fermentation, which causes the bacteria-concentration to be equal at any location in the reactor and therefore also at the discharge opening of the reactor. consequently too much valuable bacteria material will be entrained with the discharged liquid and will get lost. so as to remedy said disadvantage it has been suggested to form a precipitation room in the upper side of the fermentation vessel through which a liquid stream is passed, flowing from the lower side towards the upper side, thus enabling sludge to precipitate. in practice these measures have, however, proved to be insufficient. the present invention now aims to provide a method and device in which the abovementioned disadvantages are fully overcome. this object is attained according to the invention
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:   1. a process for aenerobic conversion of organic material in an aqueous medium in a fermentation region, comprising discharge of fermentation gas and fermented waste water by applying a sludge precipitation, characterised in that liquid to be purified is passed as a continuous stream through a plurality of successive precipitation spaces, the formed fermentation gas and the produced sludge being discharged from each precipitation space.   2. a process according to claim 1, in which gas formed in the precipitation spaces, is conveyed into an organic material, containing aqueous medium mass being comprised in a region beside the precipitation zone.   3. a process according to claims 1 or 2, in which aqueous medium to be treated is subjected to an acidification before the fermentation zone, under selective control of the ph, said ph being preferably controlled during the acidification by the addition of an acid neutralizing agent, preferably calciumcarbonate, sludge being preferably removed from the acidification region without any neutralizing agent being simultaneously entrained.     4. a process according to claims 1-3, in which during the fermentation and/or acidification, the ph is maintained at almost neutral values.   5. a process according to claims 1-4, in which heavy metals are removed from the waste liquid, as metal sulfides, said sulfides being preferably removed from the waste liquid during a preceding processing stage, while more preferably said heavy metal sulfides are obtained by adding calcium sulfate if heavy metals are in excess or by adding iron ions or calcium carbonate if sulfates are in excess.   6. a process according to claims   1-5,    in which gas emanating from the acidification region is passed into the aqueous medium mass situated beside the precipitation spaces.   7. an apparatus for aenerobic conversion of organic material in an aqueous medium, at least comprising a fermentation vessel being provided with at least a fermentation-vessel-inlet, a fermentation-vessel-outlet, a sludge discharge, a main gas outlet for discharging gas from the fermentation vessel, and a precipitation space being in connection with the fermentation-vessel-outlet, in which the fermentation vessel comprises a plurality of successive precipitation spaces (5, 5a, 5b,   5c)    to be passed by a  continuous stream of liquid, at least some of said precipitation spaces comprising a precipitation-spacegas-outlet (6) and a precipitation-space-sludgeoutlet (11).   8. an apparatus according to claim 7, in which the precipitation spaces (5, 5a, 5b,   5c)    to be passed by said stream are superimposed in a fermentation vessel.   9. an apparatus according to claim 7 or 8, in which the precipitation-space-gas-outlets debouch through gas locks into a first fermentation-vesselspace (9), situated beside the precipitation spaces, a fermentation-vessel-inlet (2) debouching into said first fermentation-vessel-space, the first fermentationvessel-space (9) preferably being mounted concentrically around the precipitation spaces (5), while more preferably the precipitation spaces (5, 5a,   5b      5c)    consist of a housing (9) being connected with a funnel shaped bottom (10) which is provided with a sludge-discharge (11) and a   precipitation-space-liquid-inlet    (7).   10. an apparatus according to claims 7-9, in which the precipitation spaces are provided with gas-guidingpartitions (12) extending into the first fermentationvessel-space (9), said gas-guiding-partitions (12) forming preferably a circular wall which inclines towards the bottom of the fermentation vessel.     11. an apparatus according to claims 7-10, in which the fermentation vessel comprises a plurality of fermentationvessel-inlets (2) extending equidistantly across the circumference of said fermentation vessel.    12. an apparatus according to claims 7-11, in which the main gas outlet (4) is situated in the uppermost part of the fermentation vessel and the gas inlet (13) is preferably connected with an acidification-vessel-gasoutlet (14).   13. an apparatus according to claim 12, in which the acidification vessel (16) comprises an acidification-vesselinlet (17) and an acidification-vessel-sludge outlet (18), said acidification vessel being preferably provided with at least an acid-neutralizing-agent-inlet (19), said agent preferably being a calcium carbonate and/or said acidification vessel preferably comprising a measuring device (20), said ph measuring device being provided with a control means (22) which governs the supply of acid neutralizing agent and/or the discharge of sludge.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
