<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0011068
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800528
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
G11B-19/20 G11B-3/00 G11B-3/31 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
turntable for record playing deck.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
ard tech ass eng<sep>a.r.d. technical assistance and engineering services international anstalt<sep>a.r.d. technical assistance and engineering services international anstaltp.o. box 346139490 , vaduzli<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
gabr saad zaghloul mohamedgb<sep>gabr, saad zaghloul mohamed<sep>gabr, saad zaghloul mohamed81 old dover roadcanterbury kentgb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a phonographic source has a turntable with a central hub  joined by radial arms to a peripheral rim in which the weight of  the turntable is concentrated so as to expose at least a major  part of the underside of a record supported on the turntable.   the record is supported at the hub, and by the arms and/or  the rim, and in modification by one or more concentric rings.   the central spindle of the turntable for reception in the record  centre hole can be connected to the turntable drive shaft only  indirectly, by a further construction in which the drive shaft  connects with a lower turntable member connected with an  upper turntable member for supporting the record by a con­ centric ring between the members.  the source can include a  pick-up arm having a counter balance portion extending from  the front position away from the portion carrying the car­ tridge, which counterbalance portion has at least approxi­ mately the shape of the other portion.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
phono#ra#h#c source the invention relates to a phonographic source, or record playing deck, and is concerned in particular with a turntable and a pick-up arm for such a source capable of eliminating or reducing unwanted contributions to the pick-up output due to motor noise and airborne vibrations, including sound vibrations from loudspeakers incorporated in the same sounc reproduction system as the phonographic source sound reproduction systems employing conventional record playing devices suffer from acoustic feedback effects due to the tendency of the turntable or platter, on which a record rests when being played to act as a sound responsive diaphragm spee regu r, also presents a problem unless a rather heat platter is employed, but this adds to production costs not only in respect of the platter itself but in respect of the associated drive motor also. accordingly t*le invention provides a phonograph turntable comprising a htib, an outer rim and means extending therebetween the turntable having the major part of the weight thereof in the : and being shaped to expose at least a major part of the undersurface of a record received thereof. also according to the invention, there is provided a phonograph turntable comprising a lower member arranged to be mounted on a drive means for the turntable, an upper member arranged to support a record to be played so as to expose gut yeast a major portion of the lower surface thereof and and providinga spindle for reception in the centre hole of such a record, the upper and lower members being connected together without direct connection between the drive shaft and the spindle. preferably the upper member cores ut plurality of arms radiating outwardly from a central hub mounting the spindle, and a plurality of concentric ring providing record-engaging surfaces. thus the motor drive shaft can be physically separated from the spindle on which the record is received to minimise the transfer of motor vibrations to the record. the concentric rings can provide continuous or substantially continuous support for the record, whilst at the same time exposing at least a major portion of the area of the underside of the record to the same airborne vibrations as are experienced by its upper surface. the invention can accordingly provide of a phonographic source and parts therefor whereby reduced acoustic feedback is achieved by arranging for exposure of both major surfaces of a record to be played to ambient acoustic pressures, whereby the cost of turntable production is reduced, together witi related costs, by concentration of the greater part of the mass of the turntable at the extreme periphery to achieve optimum regulation together with minimum weight, and whereby the transfer of drive motor vibrations to the record and thus to the pick-up arm is substantially reduced. also according to the invention, there is provided a pick-up arm for a phonographic source, the arm comprising a first portion extending from a pivot mounting position to means for carrying a pick-up cartridge, and a second, counter balance, portion
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:   1. a phonograph turntable comprising a hub, an outer rim and means extending therebetween, the turntable having the major part of the weight thereof in the rim and being shaped to expose at least a major part of the undersurface of a record received thereon.   2. a phonograph turntable as claimed in claim 1 wherein the means extending between the hub and the rim comprises a plurality of radially extending members.   3. a phonograph turntable as claimed in claim 2 having at least three of the radially extending members, each member being arranged to supportingly engage the undersurface of a record received on the turntable.   4. a phonograph turntable as claimed in claim 1, 2 or 3 in which the hub comprises an upper member with a spindle for reception in the centre hole of a record received on the turntable, and a   lover    member arranged to be received on a drive motor drive shaft by reception thereof in the lower member.   5. a phonograph turntable comprising a lower member arranged to be mounted on a drive means for the turntable, an upper member arranged to support a record to be played so as to expose at least a major portion of the lower surface thereof and providing a spindle for reception in the centre hole of such a record, the upper and lower members being connected together without direct connection between the drive shaft and the spindle.   6. a phonograph turntable as claimed in claim 5 wherein the upper member comprises a plurality of arms radiating outwardly from a central hub mounting the spindle, and a plurality of concentric rings providing record-engaging surfaces.   7. a phonograph turntable as claimed in claim 6 wherein each concentric ring comprises a ring of resilient material received in an annular channel.   8. a phonograpnh turntable as claimed in claim 5, 6,or 7  wherein the lower member comprises a hub member for engaging the drive shaft, , a plurality of arms extending outwardly from the hub member to a ring of greater weight than the hub member and spokes.   9. a phonograph turntable as claimed in any one of claims 4 to 8 wherein the upper and lower hub members are connected together only at one or more positions spaced radially from the turntable axis.   10. a phonograph turntable as claimed in claim 9 having an annular member connecting the upper and lower members and concentric therewith 11. a phonograph turntable as claimed in any of preceding claim having a skirt member   crying    stroboscopic markings.    12. a phonograph turntable as claimed in claim 11 wherein the skirt member is arranged to be detachably connectible.   13. a phonograph turntable as claimed in claim 11 or 12 wherein the skirt member is transparent or translucent for internal illumination.   14. a pick-up arm for a phonographic source, the arm comprising a first portion extending from a pivot mounting position to means for carrying a pick-up cartridge, and a second counter balance portion extending from the pivot position away from the first portion, the second portion being of a shape which at least approaches that of the first portion.   15. a pick-up arm as claimed in claim 16 wherein the length of the second portion is at least one third of the total length of the arm, 16. a pick-up arm as claimed in claim 16 which is symmetrical about the pivot position.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
