<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0005340
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19791114
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B21B-1/00 C21D-9/00 <main>B21B-15/00</main> B21B-45/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
heat shield arrangements for material e.g. in strip or bar form.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
encomech eng services gb<sep>encomech engineering services limited  <sep>encomech engineering services limited729 london roadhounslow, tw3 1segb<sep>encomech engineering services limited  <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
laws william robert<sep>reed geoffrey ronald<sep>laws, william robert<sep>reed, geoffrey ronald<sep>laws, william robert19 tudor avenueworcester park surreygb<sep>reed, geoffrey ronald8 beechdenetadworth surreygb<sep>laws, william robert<sep>reed, geoffrey ronald<sep>laws, william robert19 tudor avenueworcester park surreygb<sep>reed, geoffrey ronald8 beechdenetadworth surreygb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a heat shield arrangement for hot material (m) in  strip or bar form comprises insulating panels (2, 4) that  have a thin heat-resistant hot face (73) confronting the  material (m) and backed by a heat-insulating core (74, 75).   to protect the panels (2, 4) against damage from distorted  material (m) or material lifting from its normal path, a  contact member (6) is disposed over the material (m) and  if it is struck by the material (m), the member (6) actuating  means (46) to raise the panels (2, 4).  the panels (2, 4)  are displaceable relative to each other in order to vary  their shielding effect over the lateral extent of strip-form  material (m).  in an arrangement particularly for bar-form  material, the panels form a tubular conduit enclosing the  material on all sides.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
'%eat shield arrangements for material e * s in strip or bar bir aorta this invention relates to heat shields and it is concerned particularly, but not exclusively, with heat shields for use in metal processing. in steel mill processing whether of billets, strip or sections, the metallurgical qualities of finished product are closely related to the accurate control of temperature of the material during the hot rolling process. bor example, a modern hot strip mill producing steel coil is several hundred metres long and, trpically, steel slabs or billets may be reduced from 25 cms thickness to 0.2 cms using several roughing mill stands and five or more finishing mill stands. during the rolling process considerable heat losses occur so that the slabs have to be heated initially well in excess of the temperature requirement at the end of the process, but a particular problem has been that the heat losses from slabs passing along the mill depend upon the time taken. if the slabs are delayed, excessive heat losses occur and the steel strip does not have its required rolling temperatures, so that it may have to be downgraded or even scrapped. in many long modern rolling mills the delay of one length of strip at the finishing end has an effect on the several lengths of material which are simultaneously at various preceding stages of rolling. thus with more stringent quality specifications it is becoming more important to reduce the rate of heat loss from the material during transport between stands. there is an added difficulty in this because during the final reduction stages the back end of the strip takes longer to pass through the finishing mills and so there is a temperature "run-down" along the steel strip due to the cumulative time delay along the length of the strip. the effect of temperature "run-dovm" is to someextent. ameliorated by accelerating the finishing mills during the rolling of each individual slab or strip, but nevertheless it remains a problem. attempts have been made in tne past to reduce the heat loss from-the top surface of a hot strip during transport from the roughing mills to the finishing mills. because radiation is-a major source of heat loss at the temperatures involved (around 10600c) aluminium reflectors have been fixed over the path of the hot strip to reduce temperature "run-down". however maintenance problems limit the usefulness of reflectors which become inefficient as soon a3 they become dirty, and in addition, the aluminium reflectors which ha.ve been used for their high reflectivity and relatively low cost can reach their melting temperature if their reflectivity decreases. it has been proposed (uk patent 1 040 +20) to use heat-insulating or reflecting panels as heat shields that present to the hot material a face formed by a thin plate of stainless steel backed by a core of thermal insulation,- so that the plate forming the hot face of the panel is preheated to a luminous temperature close to that of the material
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
   claims         1. a heat    shield arrangement for hot material being processed in a hot-rolling mill,   e.g.    for metal strip or for rolled metal sections, the arrangement comprising a series of heat insulating panels above the path of the material being processed, the panels each having a heatinsulating core and a cover plate forming or overlying a main face of the panel being adapted to act as a hot face presented to the material being processed and to radiate heat back to the material,  characterised in that the series of panels (2 or 141) are provided with drive means (46 or 143) for displacing them on their supports (10 or   1423 upwardly    away from the path of the   material    (m) and sensing means being provided comprising a contact member (6 or 62 or 148) upwardly   displaceabie    relative to the panels being provided to detect lifting or distortion of the material and to actuate automatically said drive means to lift the panels away from the   material -to    protect them against damage.   2. a heat shield arrangement according to claim   i    wherein said contact member (62) is provided along the material path preceding said series of panels protected by the contact member.        3.   heat heat s^ele arrangement according to claim 1    wherein said contact member (6 or 148) is disposed within the extent of the panels (2 or 141).   4. a heat shield   arrangement    according to claim   3 for    the processing of material in the form of hot strip' or billets, wherein the panels (2) are arranged in groups of two or more panels disposed side-by-side and are   automatically    displaceable independently of said contact   member    (6) under the action of control means (30) to vary their   heat-ins-1ating    effect on a central region of the material relative to the lateral margins thereof, said control means being actuable by at least one array of temperature sensors (32) laterally spaced across the material path.      5, a heat shield arrangement according to claim 4 wherein    the panels (2) are displaceably mounted   their    supports (10) for said variation of their heat-insulating   effect    and said supports are connected to the   drive    means (46) for the joint upward displacement of the panels to protect them against damage.   6. a heat shield arrangement for hot strip or billet-form material being processed in   a- hot-rolling    mill, the arrangement comprising a series of heat-insulating panels mounted above a path for the hot material, the panels each having a heat-insulating core and a cover plate forming or overlying a main face of each panel being adapted to act as a hot face presented to the material  being processed and to radiate heat   bac. <     to the material, characterised in that the panels (2) of the series are arranged in groups of two or more panels disposed side-byside across the lateral extent of the path of the material   (era),    and means (14-22) are connected to said plurality of panels for displacing the panels with respect to each other for varying their heat-insulating effect on a central region of the hot material relative to the lateral margins thereof, at least one array of temperature sensors   (32)    being laterally spaced across the material path, and control means (30) actuated by said sensors being connected to said displacement means (14-22) in order to control the temperature and/or the transverse temperature profile of the, material being processed in   accordance with    predetermined values.      7.    an   arrangement-according    to claim 6 wherein said displacement means   (14,16,18)    for said panels (2) disposed   side-by-s-ade    are arranged to displace the panels laterally towards and away from each other.   8. an arrangement according to claim 6 wherein said displacement means   (14,20,22)    for said panels (2) disposed side-by-side are arranged to tilt the laterally   outer    regions of the panels towards and away from the material path to vary the heat-insulating effect of the panels in the outer literal margins of material relative to the central region thereof.        9. an      arrsnth.emen:-      accdrain^    to   claim    7   'o#"ether      with    claim 8   wherein    said panels are displaceable both towards and away from each other and by tilting as aforesaid.   10. an arrangement according to any one of claims 6 to 9 wherein said series of panels are mounted on displaceable supports(10) to be also jointly displaceable   towards    and away from the material path.   11. an arrangement according to any one of claims 6 to 10 wherein at least some of the panels are provided with heating means (103) regulated by said control means (30) 12. an arrangement according to any one of claims 6 to 11 further comprising a lower series of heat-insulating panels (4) disposed below the material, and means (26) are connected to said plurality of panels of the lower series for displacing the panels towards and away from each other to vary their heat-insulating effect on a central region of the material relative to lateral margins thereof.   13. an arrangement according to claim 12 wherein lifting members (115) are   provided    adjacent the lower series of   panels    for raising the   material.      14. an arrangement according. to any one of the preceding   claims    wherein a lower series of heat-insulting panels (4) beneath the path of the material are disposed between successive smaller diameter rollers   (121)    of a roller table arranged to have the material resting upon them and  larger diameter supporting rollers (120) on   supporting    said smaller diameter rollers.   15. an arrangement according to claim 14 wherein the   lover    rollers (120) have a plurality of axially spaced larger diameter portions (126) with which the smaller diameter rollers (121) are in contact.   16. a heat shield arrangement for hot material being processed in a hot rolling mill, e.g. for rolled metal sections or bars, the arrangement comprising heatinsulating panels disposed along a path of the material being processed, the panels each having a heat-insulating core and a cover plate forming or overlying the face of each panel being adapted to act as a hot face presented to the material being processed and to radiate   heat-:back    to the panel, characterised in that the   panelsform    a tubular enclosure (139) to surround all sides of the material path with the upper and lower regions of said conduit being provided by respective upper and lower panels   (140    141 or 141, 151 or 153), and at least some of the panels (141) being mounted on displaceable support means (142) to open the tubular enclosure.     17. a heat shield arrangement according to claim 16 wherein support rollers (138) for the material are disposed within the tubular enclosure (139) provided by the panels.     13.    a heat shield arrangement   according    to claim 16 or claim 17 wherein the panels   (140)    below the material path are supported on pivot mountings (136, 137) to be tiltable laterally for the removal of foreign matter.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
