<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0015707
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800917
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B60N-2/54 A47C-3/025 A47C-3/36 B60N-2/50 <main>B60N-1/00</main> A47C-3/20 A47C-3/02 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
improvements in and relating to vehicle seats.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
uop incus<sep>uop inc.<sep>uop inc.25 east algonquin roaddes plaines illinois 60017-5017us<sep>uop inc.<sep>uop inc.  <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
barley geoffrey wilfred<sep>barley, geoffrey wilfred<sep>barley, geoffrey wilfred1195 tanglewood courtbrookfield wisconsin 53003us<sep>barley, geoffrey wilfred<sep>barley, geoffrey wilfred<sep>barley, geoffrey wilfred1195 tanglewood courtbrookfield wisconsin 53003us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
this invention relates to vehicle seats.  the vehicle seat comprises a back rest (11) mounted for  substantially vertical movement relative to a base part (1), and  a seat rest (10) movable simultaneously with the back rest but  also arranged to tilt relative to the back rest as the seat rest  rises and falls.  such tilting is about horizontal transverse axes  such that the seat occupant's ankles remain stationary where­ as his knees swing about an axis through his ankles.  the invention is applicable to heavy duty vehicles and  more particularly to vehicles designed to move over rough ter­ rain.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
improvements in and relating to vehicle seats this invention relates to vehicle seats of the type in which a seat part, normally comprising a seat rest and a back rest, is supported and guided for upward and downward movement relative to a base part by means of a spring suspension. the suspension includes spring means capable of counterbalancing the load of the seat part and its occupant so that the seat part, under static conditions, is located at a mid-ride position substantially midway between up-stop and do#in-stop positions. said spring means can comprise any means of taking up, storing. and giving out energy so that the seat and its occupant can oscillate between the up-stop and down-stop positions when subjected to external forces. such a vehicle seat assists in isolating the occupant from vibrations transmitted from the vehicle wheels, particularly as the vehicle passes over rough terrain. however, the necessary freedom of the seat part to move up and down carries with it the danger, in the case of a driver's seat, of the driver's feet losing correct contact with the control pedals. previous attempts to overcome this difficulty have largely been based on the concept that the seat part of a suspension seat should move pivotally about a horizontal axis through the knee-hinges of the driver, since if such a knee-hinge axis (sometimes referred to herein as the k axis) is fixed relative to the base part of the seat, the lower leg, and hence the ankles, of the driver can remain stationary irrespective of the movements of the seat. however, if the seat rest and back rest of a seat part move in this way, the driver's back inclination will vary with rise and fall of the seat. this difficulty can be overcome by incorporating a linkage to change the inclination of the back rest with changes in the inclination of the seat rest. an example of a suspension seat designed in this way is found in british patent specification no. 1,156,942. such suspension seats have the disadvantage of a relatively large fore and aft movement of the entire part of the driver's body above his hip (h axis), since the knee hinge axis is the axis about which the seat rest and the hip region of his body is arranged to swin#. the present invention is based on the realisation that if a suspension seat can be designed to move in such a way that the seat occupant's lower leg will move about a horizontal transverse axis through the occupant's ankle hinges (a axis), with very little, if any, fore and aft movement of the occupant's hips the knee hinge axis accordingly being free to swing about the ankle hinge axis, such a seat will afford the driver a high degree of control over the vehicle over a wide range of seat movement. moreover, it is found that a seat movable in this way affords a high degree of comfort to the driver. in our copending british
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims   1. a vehicle seat comprising a seat part, which includes a seat rest (10) and a back rest (11), a base part (1), and means connecting the seat part to the base part, said means comprising a spring suspension by which the back rest is supported on the base part and which is effective to restrict movement of the back rest to a substantially vertical direction, characterised in that the suspension comprises supporting means for effecting movement of the seat rest relative to the back rest about at least two horizontal transverse axes, the supporting means including pivot connections between the seat rest and two parts (e.g.  1, 6 or 2, 6) of the seat which move relatively to each other during the rise and fall of the seat part, said axes being so located that the instantaneous directions of motion of the said pivot connections at the mid-ride position of the seat are the same as if the said transverse axes were located at the instantaneous centres (e.g.   17.1,      17.6    or   i7 2      17.6)    of rotation of the thigh (7) of a seat occupant relative to said two parts of the seat, at least one of the transverse axes being spaced from the corresponding instantaneous centre, the arrangement being such that the seat occupant's lower leg is caused to move pivotally about his ankle hinge axis (a).   2. a vehicle seat according to claim 1 characterised in that one of said pivot connections is provided by a rigid coupling (20) located at the front of the seat and pivoted at its lower end to the base part and at its upper end to the front of said seat part (figs. 1, 2, 3).   3. a vehicle seat according to claim 1 characterised in that the means connecting the seat part to the base part comprise a link (2) having a pivot connection between its forward upper end and the frame (6) and a pivot connection (p2) between its rearward lower end and the base part (1), said link (2) having a fixed pivot connection (30) adjacent its forward upper end to the seat rest (10) adjacent the  front thereof, said connection (30) being located on a first of said horizontal axes. (figs. 4, 5).   4. a vehicle seat according to claim 2 or claim 3 characteris#ed in that said pivot connections comprise pivots (p6) located on a second said horizontal transverse axis and supported on said frame (6), and pivot arms (22) rigidly secured to the seat rest and suspended from said pivots (partly shown in figs. 1, 2).   5. a vehicle seat according to claim 2 or claim 3 characterised in that said supporting means comprise rollers or sliders (23 and 26) mounted on said seat rest (10) and arranged to move in contact with surfaces (24 and 27) fixed to said frame (6) and part-cylindrical about a horizontal transverse axis through   17.6,    to constrain the movement of seat part (10) about said axis   through .17.6    relative to frame 6. (partly shown in-fig. 3).   6. a vehicle seat according to claim 2 or claim 3 characterised in that said means connecting the seat part to the base part comprise a link (3) having a lower forward end connected by a pivot connection to the base part, and a rearward upper end connected by a pivot connection to said frame (6), the seat part having a pivot connection with said rearward upper end of the link (3) formed by a roller member in rolling contact with a flat plate member, one of said members being secured to the seat part and the other to said link (3). (partly shown in fig. 4).   7. a vehicle seat according to claim 2 or claim 3 characterised in that said means connecting the seat part to the base part comprise a link (3) having a lower forward end connected by a pivot connection to the base part, and a rearward upper end connected by a pivot connection to said frame (6), the seat part having a pivot connection with said rearward upper end of the link (3) formed by a rigid   coupling (40)    having pivots   ('it,    42) at its opposite ends respectively to the seat pan (12) and to the link (3), the pivot (41) between the seat pan (12) and the coupling   (z;0)    being instantaneously movable, in response to movement of the link (3), along a  line perpendicular to the line connecting the pivot (42) to the point   17,3    (partly shown in fig. 5).   8. a vehicle seat comprising a seat part,   which    includes a seat rest (10) and a back rest (11), a base part (1) and means connecting the seat part to the base part, said means comprising a spring suspension by which the back rest is supported on the base part and which is effective to restrict movement of the back rest to a   substantially-vertical    direction, characterised in that the suspension includes support means for constraining pivotal movement of the seat rest relative to the back rest to take place about at least two horizontal axes, the supporting means connecting the seat rest to two parts of the seat which move relative to one another during rise and fall of the seat,  one supporting means comprising a coupling member having a first pivot connection at a support point on the seat rest and a second pivot connection to a mounting point on one of said two parts of the seat, the mounting point being spaced from the instantaneous centre of rotation of the thigh of the seat occupant relative to said one part of the seat, the support point being located on, and instantaneously movable perpendicular to, a straight line connecting said instantaneous centre of rotation to said mounting point, the other supporting means pivotally connecting the seat rest to the other of said parts of the seat at the instantaneous centre of rotation of the thigh of the occupant relative to said other part of the seat, whereby the seat occupant's lower leg is caused to move pivotally about his ankle hing axis (a) during rise and fall of the seat part.   9. a vehicle seat comprising a seat part, which includes a seat rest   (land    a back rest (11), a base part (1) and means connecting the seat part to the base part, said means comprising a spring suspension by which the back rest is supported on the base part and which is effective to restrict movement of the back rest to a substantially vertical direction,  the suspension including suspension means supporting the seat rest for upward and downward movement with the  back rest characterised in that said suspension means support the seat rest for pivotal movement about at least two horizontal traverse axes one of which is spaced from a selected centre of rotation and   another    of which passes through or is spaced from a different selected centre of rotation (said centres of rotation being selected from the instantaneous centres of rotation of the thigh of a seat occupant relative to any two parts of the seat which move relative to one another during upward and downward movement of the seat part relative to the base part), the or each said axis which is spaced from a said centre of rotation extending perpendicularly through the straight line which connects said centre of rotation to the point on the seat rest,  related to said centre, at which the coupling means is supported, whereby the seat occupant's lower leg is caused to move pivotally about his ankle hinge axis (a) during rise and fall of the seat part.   10. a vehicle seat comprising a seat part, which includes a seat rest (10) and a back rest (11), a base part (1) and means connecting the seat part to the base part, said means comprising a'spring suspension by which the back rest is supported on the base part and which is effective to restrict movement of the back rest to a substantially vertical direction, characterised in that the suspension includes coupling means including a first coupling (such as 20) connecting a first pivotal support point (p5) on the seat rest to a mounting point (p4) on a first part (1) of the seat which moves relative to the seat rest (10), and a second coupling (such as 21) connecting a second pivot support point (p6) on the seat rest to a mounting point on a second part (6) of the seat (said first and second parts (1, 6) of the seat being movable relative to each other as the seat part rises and falls),    said pivot support points permitting rotation of the seat rest relative to the back rest about horizontal transverse axes, and each coupling being such that if the mounting point is not located at the instantaneous centre of rotation of the thigh of a seat occupant relative to the   part of the seat to which said coupling is connected, the support point is located on, and instantaneously movable perpendicular to, the straight line connecting the mounting point of the coupling with said instantaneous centre of rotation, at least one of said mounting points being spaced from the corresponding instantaneous centre of rotation, and the arrangement being such that the seat occupant's lower leg is caused to move pivotally about his ankle hinge axis (a) during rise and fall of the seat part.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
