<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0017489
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19801015
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B65G-47/91 B65G-47/24 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
automatic apparatus for handling ceramic ware.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
service eng ltdgb<sep>service (engineers) limited<sep>service (engineers) limitedleek new roadcobridge stoke-on-trent, st6 2lbgb<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
meadows frank williamgb<sep>ryckman george edwardus<sep>timbey william gb <sep>meadows, frank william<sep>ryckman, george edward<sep>timbey, william<sep>meadows, frank william23 percival drivestockton brook stoke-on-trentgb<sep>ryckman, george edward49314 north meadowbrook circleeast liverpool ohio 43920us<sep>timbey, william27 marsh avenuenewchapel stoke-on-trentgb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
automatic apparatus for handling ceramic ware com­ prises a conveyor with a belt (17) driven by a motor (29).   ware is carried by the conveyor between adjustable guides  (36) which, if necessary, urge in onto the centre-line of the  belt.  each guide engages the actuating member (58) of a  switch operated in response to ware engaging the guide.   when both switches have been operated the motor stops  and the ware is held at a pick-up station.  a vacuum cup (93) is  lowered by a pneumatic cylinder (101) to engage the ware  and then pick it up.  the cylinder and vacuum cup are then  traversed, as by a cam (66).  the cylinder operates to lower  the vacuum cup and release the ware, and the parts return to  their initial positions.  cyclic operation continues automatic­ ally.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
automatic apparatus for handling ceramic ware this invention relates to automatic apparatus for handling ceramic ware, such as dinnerware and the like, in the process of manufacturing the same and specifically in moving the ceramic ware from one location to another without manual assistance or guidance. the apparatus is primarily intended for use with ceramic ware that has been fired at least once, though it may be of use with ware that has been shaped from clay and merely dried, that is so-called green ware. it is known to provide apparatus for this purpose comprising a conveyor with carrying means such as a moving belt for carrying ceramic ware, and with drive means to move the ware along the conveyor. removal of the ware from the conveyor, however, has been effected manually. other forms of apparatus are also known. for example apparatus for use in supplying partly finished dinnerware to a dinnerware-decorating machine, has comprised tables, which are fixed and/or movable, from which operators manually remove the articles of ware and manually position them in or on the decorating machine for further processing. the applicants know of no prior patent specifications which relate to the automation of the handling steps previously performed manually, that is feeding, centring, locating, lifting, traversing, and lowering articles of ceramic ware, and which incorporate the capabilities of the present invention. according to the present invention there is provided automatic apparatus for handling ceramic ware, and of the kind comprising a conveyor having carrying means operative to carry ceramic ware and drive means operative to cause the carrying means to move the ware along the conveyor, characterised in that the apparatus also comprises guide means comprising a guide on each side of the path followed by ware moving along the conveyor and inclined relative to the path so that ware moved along the conveyor and engaging the guide means is constrained to move laterally of the conveyor so as to take up a predetermined position on the path and to be carried to a pick-up station, detector means responsive to the presence of ware at the pick-up station and operative to stop the drive means when ware is present at the pick-up station and to re-start the drive means when ware is not present at said station, pick-up means comprising a pick-up head operative to engage and release ware and shifting means operative to raise and lower the pick-up head and to cause the pick-up head to traverse, and control means operative when ware is present at the pick-up station to cause the shifting means to lower the pick-up head from an initial position onto the ware, to cause the pick-up head to engage the ware, to cause the shifting means to raise the head with the ware traverse it away from the pick-up station and lower it, to cause the pick-up head to release the ware and to cause the shifting means to return the head to its initial position. embodiments of the invention will
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims   1. automatic apparatus for handling ceramic ware, and of the kind comprising a conveyor having carrying means (17; 152) operative to carry ceramic ware (w, 20; 153, 182, 197) and drive means (26 to 29) operative to cause the carrying means to move the ware along the conveyor, characterised in that the apparatus also comprises guide means comprising a guide (36; 154) on each side of the path followed by ware moving along the conveyor and inclined relative to the path so that ware moved along the conveyor and engaging the guide means is constrained to move laterally of the conveyor so as to take up a predetermined position on the path and to be carried to a pick-up station (x; y), detector means (57; 174, 175) responsive to the presence of ware at the pick-up station and operative to stop the drive means when ware is present at the pick-up station and to re-start the drive means when ware is not present at said station, pick-up means comprising a pick-up head (93; 196) operative to engage and release ware and shifting means (18;  188, 193) operative to raise and lower the pick-up head and to cause the pickup head to traverse, and control means operative when ware is present at the pick-up station to cause the shifting means to lower the pick-up head from an initial position onto the ware, to cause the pick-up head to engage the ware, to cause the shifting means to raise the head with the ware traverse it away from the pick-up station and lower it, to cause the pick-up head to release the ware and to cause the shifting means to return the head to its initial position.     2. automatic apparatus according to claim 1 characterised in that the positions of the guides can be adjusted in unison to accommodate ware of different widths.   3. automatic apparatus according to either of claims 1 and 2 characterised in that the detector means comprises a first detector (57) associated with one guide and a second detector (57) associated with the other guide, each detector being operated when ware engages the associated guide, and the detector means operating to stop the drive means in response to the operation of both detectors but not to stop the drive means in response to the operation of one detector alone.   4. automatic apparatus according to either of claims 1 and 2 characterised in that the detector means comprises a detector (174) having a displaceable member (175) engaged by ware as it approaches the pick-up station, displacement of the member by the ware causing the operation of the detector which in turn causes the stopping of the drive means.   5. automatic apparatus according to claim 4 characterised in that there are provided stop means (179) operative to prevent ware being car   rived    beyond the pick-up station by the conveyor, and adjustment means (171) to enable the position of the stop to be adjusted so that the apparatus can accommodate ware of different sizes.    6. automatic apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims characterised in that the  shifting means comprises lift means (101, 102; 193) operative to raise and lower the pick-up head and traversing means (68; 188) operative to cause traversing movement of the lift means and thus of the pick-up head.   7. automatic apparatus according to claim 6 characterised in that the lift means comprises a pneumatically operated piston-and-cylinder unit (101, 102; 193).   8. automatic apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims characterised in that the pick-up head comprises an inverted resilient cup (93; 196) to the interior of which a vacuum can be applied.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
