<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0016275
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19801001
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
F16L-17/00 F16L-49/02 F16L-49/00 <main>F16L-21/02</main> F16J-15/10 F16L-17/035 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
a resilient sealing ring.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
finring manufacturing pty limi<sep>finring manufacturing pty.limited<sep>finring manufacturing pty. ltd.20 keats streetsunnybank, queensland, 4109au<sep>finring manufacturing pty.limited<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
wilson ralph<sep>wilson, ralph<sep>wilson, ralph20 keats streetsunnybank, queensland, 4109au<sep>wilson, ralph  <sep>wilson, ralph 20 keats streetsunnybank, queensland, 4109au<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a resilient sealing ring (10) for a spigot and socket type  pipe joint has a locating portion (22) adjacent its leading end  (25) with a radial dimension sufficient to position the  cooperating socket pipe end (13) and spigot pipe end (12) in  substantially concentric relationship.  the ring (10) tapers  from the locating portion (22) towards the leading end (25)  and has at its trailing end (18) a pair of divergent annular fins  (21,24) which diverge towards the surfaces (19,20) of the soc­ ket pipe end (13) and the spigot pipe end respectively.  the ring  (10) further has an abutment rib (15) which in use engages  against a shoulder (16) of one of the pipe ends (11) to locate  the ring (10) relative to that pipe end.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
a resilient soling ring this invention relates to pipe connection means and in particular it relates to an improved form of resilient sealing ring for sealing socketed pipe joints, at present there are various ways of sealably joining pipes and the methods used vary according to the type of pipes used. earthenware or vitrified clay pipes are commonly formed with one socket end and one plain end and such pipes are adapted to be joined sealably together by interposing a circular cross-section o-ring between the plain end of one ripe and the socket end of an adjoining pipe and forcing the ends into engagement. the engagement is accomplished by relative movement between the pipe ends to cause the o-ring to do one complete roll so that it assumes a compressed attitude be een the socket end and the plain end of the pipes. the collar length must be sufficient to enable the o-ring to complete the full roll to its engaged position and the c-ring must be accurately placed prior to forcing the ends together to ensure that the ring does not twist and form an ineffective seal. when the point has been made it is normally necessary to check that the 0-ring is accurately disposed in its operative position. the emrar#erent action is acconnaried by compressing of the o-rin- and often the compression forces are sufficient to break the relatively lon collar of the socket end of the pipe so that the joint and the rite section are ruined. such fractures sometimes occur immediately upon installation or after some time has elapsed. if the failure occurs immediately, then the pipe has to be replaced and the inconvenience caused is minimal. however, it often happens that a pipe which is adjacent the head of a line of joined pipes fails due to the abovementioned compression forces after a period of time has elapsed. in such cases the whoae pipeline assembly has to be dismantled to replace the fractured pipe. this problem is particularly troublesome in an underground installation as the pipeline has to be dug up to find the broken section to be replaced accordingly, it is an object of this. invention to provide an improved sealing ring for socket-type pipe #oints which will overcome the abovementioned disadvantages of the presently available seals and which will be reliable and efficient in use. underground pipelines are often subject to external water pressure from the surrounding earth which is greater than the pressure within the pipe. the present invention enables a seal tobe formed between pipes which trill prevent ingress of fluid into the interior of the pipe from outside. furthermore, the present invention aims to provide a sliding joint as opposed to a rolling joint whereby the seal can be used in wet and damp trench conditions without detriment to the standard of the finished joint. it is also desirable to prevent roots penetrating past seals into the pipelines and the present invention provides a seal which will be effective in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:   1. a seal for a socket type pipe joint formed between the spigot end of a pipe and the socket end of an adjoining pipe, said seal being in the form of a resilient sealing ring adapted to be located at the end of one said pipe and slid into operative engagement with the other said pipe for location   between    the spaced outer surface of the spigot end of one pipe and the inner surface of the socket end of the overlapping pipe, said ring including a locating portion adjacent its operative leading end having a transverse or radial dimension sufficient to operatively position said socket end and said spigot end in their operative substantially concentric relationship,  and said ring tapering from said locating portion towards said leading end and at   the    trailing end of said ring having a pair of diverging annular fins each adapted to diverge towards a respective one of said inner surface of said socket end or said outer surface of said spigot end and said ring having an abutment portion extending therearound and adapted to be engaged behind a shoulder of said one pipe to fixedly locate said ring with respect to said one pipe.      2.    a seal according to claim 1, wherein said leading end tapers towards said one pipe.   3. a seal according to claim 1 or claim 2,   wherein    said transverse or radial dimension of said locating portion is substantially thirty per cent greater than the gap between the respective inner and outer surfaces of the concentrically disposed socket end and spigot end of  said pipes.   4. a-seal according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein said abutment portion is disposed rearwardly of said locating portion and said trailing fin which tapers towards said one pipe extends from a continuation of a substantial proportion of said locating portion which extends past said abutment portion 5. a seal according to claim 4, wherein the transverse or radial dimension of said continuation of substantial portion of said locating portion is substantially equal to or greater than sixty per cent of the radial dimension of the gap between the respective inner and outer surfaces of the concentrically disposed socket end and spigot end of said pipes.   6. a seal   according to    any one of the preceding claims,   therein    said abutment portion comprises an annular projection   baying    a substantially rectangular cross-section.      7.    a seal according to claim 6, wherein the transverse or radial dimension of said annular projection is substantially equal to or greater than forty per cent of the gap between the respective inner and outer surfaces of the concentrically disposed socket end and spigot end of said pipes, 8. a seal according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the effective internal diameter of said seal is less than the outer diameter of said spigot end by about ten to fifteen per cent.   9. a seal according to any one of the preceding  claims, wherein the overall length of said seal from its leading end to its trailing end is approximately three tines the transverse or radial dimension of said locating portion.   10. a seal for a socket type pipe joint formed between the spigot end of a pipe and the socket end of an adjoining'pipe, said seal being in the form of a resilient sealing ring adapted to be located about said spigot end and slid into operative engagement within said socket end of the adjoining pipe for location, said ring including a locating portion   adjacent    its operative leading end having a.  transverse or radial dimension sufficient to operatively position said socket end and said spigot end in their operative substantially concentric relationship, and said ring tapering away from the inner face of said socket end towards said leading end and at the trailing end of said ring a pair of diverging annular fins each adapted to diverge towards a respective one of said inner surface of said socket end or the outer surface of said spigot end, and said ring having an abutment portion extending   there around    and adapted to be engaged within a recess in said socket end to   fixedly    locate said ring   thereabout.      11. a seal according to claim 10,   wherein    said transverse or radial dimension of said locating portion is substantially thirty per cent greater than the gap between the respective inner and outer surfaces of the concentrically disposed socket end and spigot end of said pipes.     12. a seal according to claim 10 or claim 11, wherein said abutment portion is disposed   rearwardly    of said locating portion and said trailing fin which tapers towards said one pipe extends from a continuation of a substantial proportion of said locating portion which extends past said abutment portion and the radial dimension of said continuation of substantial portion of said locating portion is substantially equal to or greater than sixty per cent of the radial dimension of the gap between the respective inner and outer surfaces   of the    concentrically disposed socket end and spigot end of said pipes   13.    a seal according to any one of the preceding claims,   wherein said abutment portion comprises an annular projection having a substantially rectangular cross-section and the radial   dimension    of said annular projection is substantially equal to or greater than forty per cent of the gap between the respective inner and outer surfaces of the concentrically disposed socket end and spigot end of said pipes.      14.    a seal according to claim 13, wherein the effective internal diameter of said seal is less than the outer diameter of said spigot end by about ten to fifteen per cent.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
