<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0015357
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800917
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<main>F26B-3/22</main> F26B-25/00 F26B-25/04 F26B-3/22 F26B-25/06 F26B-23/00 F26B-3/00 F26B-9/06 F26B-25/10 F26B-9/08 F26B-23/02 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
apparatus for drying manure and similar residual products.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
nilsson per ake<sep>nilsson, per ake<sep>nilsson, per aketuthults-28500 markarydse<sep>nilsson, per ake<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
nilsson per ake<sep>nilsson, per ake<sep>nilsson, per aketuthults-28500 markarydse<sep>nilsson, per ake<sep>nilsson, per aketuthults-28500 markarydse<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
apparatus for drying manure or similar residual pro­ ducts, which apparatus includes a drying chamber (5) and  a heating chamber (3) therebelow, an agitator (7) having  an agitator arm for being in contact with the bottom wall  (6) of the drying chamber.  for purpose of assuring the  application of the agitator arm (9) against the bottom wall  (6) a bias means (30) is pvorided and/or the bottom wall  (6) is supported freely at its peripheral portion.  a condensation device (20) is provided for the con­ densation of vapours obtained in the drying process.  an  expel fan (22, 23) expels said vapours to the condensation  device from which condensation water and residual gas  are suppled to a collecting vessel (26).  from said collec­ ting vessel (26) a conduit (27) extends to the heat cham­ ber, the heating device of which is a burner (4) for fossile  combustibles.  said residual gas is combusted in the hea­ ting chamber.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
apparatus for drying manure and similar residual products the present invention relates to an apparatus for drying manure and similar residual products which apparatus includes a heating chamber with an associated heating device for the heating of manure in a drying chamber placed thereover and separated from the heating chamber by its bottom wall, and an agitator disposed in the drying chamber and having at least one agitator arm. in drying apparatus of this kind which are used for the drying of e.g. manure from poultry, as fowls, for reducing the smell of the manure and for making the manure easier to handle, the arm of the agitator is to move in contact with the upper surface of the bottom wall of the drying chamber for preventing manure to be baked to the bottom wall. when operating the drying apparatus the bottom wall will be heated and expands. since the bottom wall is fixed to the side walls of the drying apparatus, the bottom wall be buckled and so the agitator which is relatively rigid cannot, when being moved, be applied against the entire surface of the bottom wall. thus, in the prior art drying apparatus manure will be baked to some portions of the bottom wall and so heat transfer from the heat chamber therebelow to the drying chamber will be reduced. the baked manure will press the agitator arm upwards, and after a short while a cake of baked manure is formed over the entire bottom of the drying chamber. since baked manure in one phase of the drying process has a very sticky nature the agitator arm will be subjected to high stress which can result in undue deformations and rupture of the agitator arm at its fixing point to the agitator arm. another problem in prior art drying apparatuses is the vapours which during the heat treatment evaporate from the manure.these vapours are brought to a condensation device where the major part is condensed and the residual part is delivered to the ambient atmosphere. although the amount is small, the residual vapour part delivered to the ambient atmosphere will cause an embarassing smell in the vicinity and in the surroundings of the drying apparatus. in prior art drying apparatus said vapours also escape from the drying chamber through bushings for the agitator shaft and through the supply opening, thereby aggravating the problem of the smell. the purpose of the invention is to obtain a drying apparatus of that kind mentioned by way of introduction, which apparatus eliminates the above mentioned drawbacks. thus, the drying apparatus according to the invention eliminates almost entirely the problem of the smell. moreover, in the operation of the drying apparatus a satisfactory contact is obtained for the agitator arm against the bottom wall of the drying chamber. said purpose is achieved by means of an apparatus for drying manure and like residual products in which apparatus the agitator arm is biased against said bottom wall to provide for contact against said
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims    1. apparatus for drying manure and similar residual products, which apparatus includes a heat chamber (3) having an associated heat device (4) for heating manure in a drying chamber (5) disposed thereover and separated from the heating chamber by its bottom wall (6), and an agitator (7) disposed in the drying chamber and having at least one agitator arm (9) to be moved in contact with the bottom wall (6) of the drying chamber, c h a r a c t e r i z e   o    in that said agitator arm (9) is biased against said bottom wall (6) to provide for contact against said bottom wall (6) during the operation of the drying apparatus and/or that said bottom wall (6) is supported freely at its peripheral portion for eliminating buckling of the bottom wall (6) when subjected to heat during the operation of the drying apparatus.    2. apparatus according to claim 1, the drying chamber (5) having circular sectioned shape in the horizontal plane and said agitator (7) including a shaft (8) centered in the drying chamber and connected to a device (11) for rotationg said shaft, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that said shaft (8) is close to the upper surface of the bottom wall (6) and that said agitator arm (9) is attached to the lower portion of said shaft for being applied against said bottom wall, that a pressure arm (30) extends from a position on said shaft spaced from the lower portion thereof to a position on the agitator arm spaced from said shaft.    3. apparatus according to claim 2, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that said pressure arm (30) has bias means (38) for urging the agitator arm (9) against said bottom wall (6), and that said pressure arm (30) at its ends is pivotably supported for movement around axles (33, 35) which lies in planes parallel to said bottom wall (6).    4. apparatus according to claim 3, c aha   ra    c t e r i z e d in that said bias means (38) includes a pressure spring provided on the pressure arm (30) between movably engaging sections (36, 37) of the pressure arm.    5. apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 4, a discharge box (50) being provided under the drying chamber and separated therefrom, which discharge box has a door (51) in the bottom wall (6) of the drying chamber for permitting dried manure to fall down into the discharge box, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that said discharge box (50) extends below the heating chamber (3), there having a collecting pocket (52)  which at one end communicates with the outside of said apparatus for the discharge of dried manure.    6. apparatus as claimed in claim 5, said bottom wall (6) being freely supported at its peripheral portion, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that said bottom wall (6) at the side walls of the apparatus being supported by flange means (12) projecting from the side walls, that radial notches (13) are made in the bottom wall at its circumference and that shoulders (14) cooperating with said notches are provided on said flange means (12).    7. apparatus according to claim 6, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that said bottom wall (6) on its underside has uniformly distributed, radial members (14) spot welded thereto for enhancing the ridgity of said bottom wall.    8. apparatus for drying manure and similar residual products, which apparatus includes a heat chamber (3) having an associated heating device for heating manure in a drying chamber (5) disposed thereover and separated from the heating chamber by means of its bottom wall (6), and a condensation device (20) which is connected to the drying chamber (5) for receiving vapours evaporated from the manure in the drying process and for condensation thereof, as well as a collecting vessel (26) for condensation water connected to the outlet of the condensation device, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that-an expel fan (22, 23) is provided for expelling said vapours from the drying chamber (5) to the condensation device (20).    9. apparatus according to claim 8, c   ha    r   act    e r i z e d in that the impeller (23) of said expel fan is positioned in a dome (21) provided at the upper portion of the drying chamber, a connecting conduit (24) to the condensation device (20) opening into said dome.     10. apparatus according to claim 8 or 9, said heating device being a burner (4) for fossile combustibles, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that a connection conduit (27) is provided for supplying residual gas obtained in the condensation device (20) into the heat chamber (3) for combustion therein.    11. apparatus as claimed in claim 10, c h a r-a c t e r i z e d in that said connection conduit (27) extends from the collecting vessel   (23 ), which    has a large volume for serving as a buffer storage for the residual gas, and opens adjacent to the air inlet of said burner (4).  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
