<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0007114
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800123
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<main>C08J-5/18</main> C08G-69/00 C08G-69/32 C08J-5/18 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
aromatic polyamide film and process for producing the same.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
teijin ltd jp  <sep>teijin limited<sep>teijin limited11 minami honmachi 1-chome higashi-kuosaka-shi osaka-fujp<sep>teijin limited<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
aoki akihiro<sep>shimada keizo<sep>tamura yorikazu<sep>aoki, akihiro<sep>shimada, keizo<sep>tamura, yorikazu<sep>aoki, akihiro3-1-3, yamatemachiiwakuni-shi, yamaguchi-kenjp<sep>shimada, keizo3-1-40, yamatemachiiwakuni-shi, yamaguchi-kenjp<sep>tamura, yorikazu3-1-40, yamatemachiiwakuni-shi, yamaguchi-kenjp<sep>aoki, akihiro  <sep>shimada, keizo<sep>tamura, yorikazu<sep>aoki, akihiro3-1-3, yamatemachiiwakuni-shi, yamaguchi-kenjp<sep>shimada, keizo3-1-40, yamatemachiiwakuni-shi, yamaguchi-kenjp<sep>tamura, yorikazu3-1-40, yamatemachiiwakuni-shi, yamaguchi-kenjp<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
aromatic polymaide film, having an excellent thermal  resistance and a high dielectric breakdown strength, which  comprises an aromatic polyamide containing repeating units  of the formula   [ h - ar₁ - co ] or   [ nh - ar₁ -nhco - ar₂ - co ]   and cross linked with a cross-linking compound having at  least one radical selected from   r¹ - c(r²) = c - ch₂(r¹)-,   r₁ - c(r²) = cr¹-,   r¹ - c(r²) = c(r¹) - coo - and   r¹ - c(r²) = c(r¹) - conh -,   or another cross-linking cyanuric or isocyanuric acid com­ pound, by means of heat, ultraviolet rays or electron beam.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
aromatic polyamide film and process for producing the same specification the present invention relates to an aromatic polyamide film and a process for producing the same. more particularly, the present invention relates to an aromatic polyamide film having an enhanced heat resisting property and improved electrical properties and a process for producing the same. it is known that the so-called wholly aromatic polyamide resins have not only excellent thermal properties, for example, a high melting point and an excellent heat resistance, but also, excellent mechanical properties, for instance, a high tenacity and an abrasion resistance. especially, the chemical industry's attention is now drawn to the fact that p-phenylene terephthalamide type polymers, halogen-substituted p-phenylene terephthalamide type polymers, m-phenylene terephthalamide type polymers, p-phenylene isophthalamide type polymers and m-phenylene isophthalamide type polymers, respectively, exhibit a relatively high processability, and therefore, are useful as a material for producing fibers, filaments, fibrids, threads, films, paper-like sheets and other shaped articles. however, it is, also, known that the dielectric breakdown strength and heat resistance, especially, resistance to thermal decomposition, of the conventional aromatic polyamide resin articles are inferior to those of polyimide resin articles. particularly, it has been strongly desired to provide a new type of aromatic polyamide film or sheets having an improved heat resistance and enhanced dielectric properties, in order to expand the use of the aromatic polyamide films or sheets. for the purpose of.attaining the above-mentioned desire, japanese patent applications laying-open nos. 51-122160 (1976) and 51-122173 (1976) disclosed a method in which an m-phenylene isophthalamide type polymer film was treated with a higher fatty acid, fluorinated or chlorinated aliphatic carboxylic acid or aromatic hydrocar having a methyl radical. also, japanese patent application. laying-open nos. 52-56169 (1977) and 52-152973 (1977) disclosed a method for improving the electrical properties of the aromatic polyamide film by drawing it biaxiail. furthermore, japanese patent application publication no. 53-45238 (1978) disclosed a method in which a halogen -substituted p-phenylene terephthalamide type polymers film was heat-treated under tension to reduce the moisture absorbing property of the film. the reduction of th moisture absorption causes the dielectric properties of the film to be improved. each of the above-mentioned prior arts are effective for modifying only a dielectric property, suc as dielectric breakdown strength, of the aromatic polyamide film. however, the modified value of the dielectric breakdown strength of the aromatic polyamide films of the above-mentioned prior arts is still inferior to that of the polyimide resin films and the polyester resin films. also, none of the above-mentioned prior arts disclosed any method effective for enhancing the heat resisting property, especialy, resistance to thermal decomposition. an object of the present invention is to provide ar aromatic polyamide film having not only an improved dielec tric, breakdown strength but, also, an enhanced resistance to thermal decomposition or deterioration, and a process for producing the same. another object of the present invention is to provide an aromatic polyamide film having a reduced solubility in solvent without reducing mechanical properties thereof, and a process for
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims    1. an aromatic polyamide film comprising at least one aromatic polyamide containing repeating units selected from the group consisting of those of the formulae (i) and   (if):    emi27.1       wherein   ar    and ar2 respectively represent, independently from each other, an unsubstituted or substituted divalent aromatic radical which comprises a single aromatic ring, or two or more aromatic rings that are condensed together, or are linked together by a single bond, or by a bridging atom or radical, and which is oriented either meta or para, said aromatic polyamide molecules being cross-linked with at least one cross-linking compound.    2. an aromatic polyamide film as claimed in claim 1, wherein said cross-linking cdmpound is selected from the class consisting of compounds which have at least one radical selected from the group consisting of those of the formulae (iii), (iv), (v) and (vi): and emi27.2         emi28.1       wherein r1, r2 and r3 respectively represent, independently from each other, a member selected from the group consising of a hydrogen atom and alkyl radicals having 1 to 6 carbon atoms, and other compounds of the formulae (xi) and (xii): emi28.2       wherein r8, r9 and r10 respectively represent, independently from each other, a member selected from the group consisting of a hydrogen atom, alkyl radicals having 1 to 10 carbon atoms, hydroxyalkyl radicals having 1 to 10 carbon atoms, carboxyalkyl radicals having 1 to 10 carbon atoms and halogenated alkyl radicals having 1 to 10 carbon atoms.    3. an aromatic polyamide film as claimed in claim 1, wherein said aromatic polyamide comprises at least 75 moler% of said repeating units selected from those of the formulae (i) and/or   (it).       4. an aromatic polyamide film as claimed in claim 1, wherein said arl and ar2 in said formulae (i) and (ii) are respectively selected, independently from each other, from the group consisting of the radicals of the formulae: emi28.3         emi29.1       wherein r represents a member selected from the group consisting of lower alkyl radicals having 1 to 6 carbon atoms, lower alkoxy radicals having 1 to 6 carbon atoms, hologen atoms and a nitro radical, n represents zero or an integer of from 1 to 4 and x represents a member selected from the group consisting of emi29.2       wherein y represent a member selected from the group consisting of a hydrogen atom and lower alkyl radicals having 1 to 6 carbon atoms.    5. an aromatic polyamide as claimed in claim 2, wherein said cross-linking compounds having at least one radical selected from the group consisting of those of the formulae (iii) and (iv) are selected from the class consisting of those of the formulae (vii) through (x):   emi30.1       wherein at least any one member of r4, r5 and r6 in the formulae (vii) and (viii) and at least any one member of r4,   5    r6 and r7 in the formulae (ix) and (x) respectively represent, independently from each other, a member selected from the group consisting of the radicals of the formulae (iii) and (iv), and the remaining members of r4, r5, r6 and r7 in the formulae (vii) through (x) respectively represent, independently from each other, a member selected from the group consisting of a hydrogen atom, alkyl radicals having 1 to 10 carbon atoms,  hydroxyalkyl radicals having 1 to 10 carbon atoms, carboxyalkyl radicals in which the alkyl groups have 1 to 10 carbon atoms and halogenated  alkyl radicals having 1 to 10 carbon atoms, and m represents an integer of 1 or more.    6. an aromatic polyamide film as claimed in claim 1, wherein said aromatic polyamide molecules are cross-linked with said cross-linking compound in an amount of 10% based on the weight of said aromatic polyamide.    7. an aromatic polyamide film as claimed in claim 1, wherein said cross-linkages are formed by applying heat, ultraviolet rays or electron rays onto said aromatic polyamide film containing said cross-linking compound.    8. a process for producing an aromatic polyamide film, comprising the steps of:  shaping a composition into a film, which composition comprises (1) at least one aromatic polyamide containing repeating units selected from the group consisting of those of the formulae (i) and   (ii):    emi31.1       wherein arl and ar2 respectively represent, independently from each other, an unsubstituted or substituted divalent aromatic radical which comprises a single aromatic ring, or two or more aromatic rings that are condensed together, or are linked together by a single bond, or by a bridging atom or radical, and which is oriented either meta or para, (2) at least one cross-linking compound and (3) a liquid;  removing said liquid from said composition to provide a solid precursory aromatic polyamide film, and; ;  applying heat, ultra-violet rays or electron beam onto said precursory aromatic polyamide film to cross -link said aromatic polyamide molecules with said cross -linking compound.    9. a process as claimed in claim 8, wherein said cross-linking compound is selected from the class consisting of compounds which have at least one radical selected  from the group consisting of those of the formulae (iii), (iv),   (v)    and   (vi):    emi32.1         wherein r1 , r2 and r3 respectively    represent, independently from each other, a member selected from the group consisting of a hydrogen atom and alkyl radicals having 1 to 6 carbon atoms, and other compounds of the formulae (xi) and (xii): : emi32.2       wherein r8 , r9 and r10 respectively represent, independently from each other, a member selected from the group consisting of a hydrogen atom, alkyl radicals having 1 to 10 carbon atoms, hydroxyalkyl radicals having 1 to 10 carbon atoms, carboxyalkyl radicals having 1 to 10 carbon atoms and  halogenated alkyl radicals having 1 to 10 carbon atoms.    10. a process as claimed in claim 8, wherein said precursory aromatic polyamide film is drawn in one or two directions at a draw ratio of 1.1 or more, before said cross-linking operation.    11. a process as claimed in claim 8, wherein said application of heat is carried out at a temperature of 2500c or more.    12. a process as claimed in claim 8, wherein said application of ultraviolet rays is carried out by using an ultraviolet ray radiation source of at least 2 kw.    13. a process as claimed in claim 8, wherein said application of electron beam is carried out at a dose of at least 0.5 m rad.     14. a process as claimed in claim 8, wherein said liquid is selected from the group consisting of concentrated sulfuric acid and organic liquids capable of dissolving said aromatic polyamides and said cross-linking   compounds.-     15. a process as claimed in claim 14, wherein said organic liquid is selected from the group consisting of dimethyl formamide, dimethyl acetamide, n-methyl-2 -pyrrolidone and hexamethyl phosphoramide.    16. a process as claimed in claim 8, wherein said composition additionally contains at least one member selected from metal and ammonium halides.    17. a process as claimed in claim 16, wherein said metal halide is selected from the group consisting of calcium chloride, lithium chloride, magnesium chloride, lithium bromide and calcium bromide.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
