<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0007186
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800123
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
H01R-43/08 H01R-43/06 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
methods of manufacturing commutators, and a commutator manufactured by such methods.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
qualtex ind ltdgb   <sep>qualtex industries limited<sep>qualtex industries limitedchalex works manor hall roadsouthwick, east sussex bn4 4nzgb<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
gaywood albert jamesgb<sep>gaywood, albert james<sep>gaywood, albert jameschalex works manor hall roadsouthwick, east sussex bn4 4nzgb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
this invention relates to methods of manufacturing  commutators for electric motors and generators, and pro­ vides a method in which the individual commutator segments  are formed from a ring of copper and in which the usual  broaching operation carried out on the commutator ring to  form a plurality of channels extending parallel to the axis of  the ring, and facing radially inwards is replaced by a coining  operation carried out on the copper while it is still in the form  of a flat strip.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
improvements in or relating to methods of manufacturing commutator5: commutators: this invention relates to methods of manufacturing commutators for electric motors and generators. a commutator consists of a plurality of segments of electrically conductive material and electrically insulating material arranged alternately around the surface of a cylinder. at one time it was normal practice to manufacture a commutator from separate segments of copper and mica. however, it is now more usual, at least in the case of relatively small motors and generators, to produce a ring of electrically conductive material, to embed the ring in insulating material by a moulding process, and thereafter to cut the ring into the required number of segments. usually the ring is produced from a strip of copper, similar electrically conductive material, which is then broached to form a plurality of channels extending parallel to the axis of the ring and facing radially inwards. it is to be understood that, after the ring has been embedded in the electrically insulating material, the bases of the channels are cut away so that the commutator segments ore formed by the ridges which remain between the channels. in order to improve the adhesion of the copper to the insulating material, it is usual to skive the ends of the ridges before the moulding process in order to form projecting tangs which lock the copper to the insulating material. further, it is common practice to make a plurality of cuts in the copper at one end of the ring in order to form tabs which will be used for making connections to the armature winding in the finished motor or generator. the broaching operation referred to above involves the removal of a considerable amount of copper from the ring and, accordingly, it is an object of the present invention to provide a modified process in which this removal of copper is avoided. accordingly, from one aspect the invention consists in a method of manufacturing a commutator for an electric motor or generator from a strip of electrically conductive material having a longitudinally extending marginal portion thinner than the remainder of the strip, including the following steps: 1) a plurality of parallel channels separated by ridges are formed extending transversely across the thicker portion of said strip; 2) a plurality of parallel slots are formed in said marginal portion, each slot being aligned with a respective one of said channels; 3) the ends of each of said ridges are deformed to make them project from the strip; and 4) the strip is formed into a ring with said ridges facing inwardly. it will be understood from the above that a method in accordance with the invention differs from known methods of manufacturing commutators primarily in that the broaching operation carried out on the copper ring is replaced by an operation carried out on the copper while it is still in the form of a flat strip. accordingly, from another aspect the invention consists in a method of manufacturing a commutator
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:   1. a method of manufacturing a commutator for an electric motor or generator, including the step of forming a plurality of parallel transverse channels separated by ridges in a flat strip of electrically conductive material.   2. a method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the channels and ridges are formed by a coining operation.   3. a method of manufacturing a commutator for an electric motor or generator from a strip of electrically conductive material having a longitudinally extending marginal portion thinner than the remainder of the strip, including the following steps:  a) a plurality of parallel channels separated by ridges are  formed extending transversely across the thicker portion  of said strip;  b) a plurality of parallel slots are formed in said marginal  portion, each slot being aligned with a respective one of  said channels;  c) the ends of each of said ridges are deformed to make them  project from the strip; and  d) the strip is formed into a ring with said ridges facing  inwardly.     4. a method as claimed in claim 3, wherein the channels and ridges are formed by a coining operation.   5. a method   claimed    in claim 3 or claim 4, wherein the slots in the marginal portion of the strip are produced by a piercing operation.   6. a method as claimed in any of claims 3 to 5, wherein the deformation of the ends of the ridges is carried out by a skiving operation.   7. a method as claimed in claims 4, 5 and 6 in which the three steps of coining, piercing and skiving are carried out successively in a multiple press.   8. a method as claimed in any of claims 3 to 7, wherein insulating material is introduced into the interior of the ring so that said ridges are embedded in the insulating material.   9. a method as claimed in claim 8, wherein a plurality of parallel slots are cut through the material of the ring not embedded in the insulating material, each of said slots being aligned with one of said parallel slots formed in said marginal portion.   10. a method of manufacturing a commutator for an electric motor or generator from a strip of electrically conductive material having a longitudinally extending marginal portion thinner than the remainder of the strip including the following steps:  a) said strip is cut into a plurality of lengths;  b) a plurality of parallel channels separated by ridges are  formed extending transversely across the thicker portion  of each of said lengths; c) a plurality of parallel slots are formed in the marginal  portion of each of said lengths, each slot being aligned  with a respective one of said channels; d) the ends of each of said ridges in each of said lengths  are deformed to make them project from the respective  length; e) each length is formed into a segment of a circle with said  ridges facing inwardly;   f) a plurality of said lengths forming a complete ring are  inserted in a mould and insulating material is introduced  into the interior of said ring; and g) slots are cut in each of said lengths to form a plurality of  commutator segments, each aligned with a respective one  of said ridges embedded in said insulating material.     11. a commutator for an electric motor or generator manufactured by a method as claimed in any of the preceding claims.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
