<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0015298
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800917
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
F16G-13/24 B63B-21/00 F16F-1/46 B60D-1/18 F16G-13/00 B63B-21/20 <main>B63B-21/00</main> B60D-1/00 F16F-1/42 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
tension spring device.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
horda gummifabrik abse<sep>horda gummifabrik aktiebolag<sep>horda gummifabrik abhordas-330 17 rydaholmse<sep>horda gummifabrik aktiebolag <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
johansson rune<sep>johansson, rune<sep>johansson, runeängsvägen 3 hordas-330 17 rydaholmse<sep>johansson, rune<sep>johansson, runeängsvägen 3 hordas-330 17 rydaholmse<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a device (13) for taking up tensile stresses under  resilient conditions includes a body as a spring element  (1), made of an elastic material, preferably rubber, a draw  element and connecting devices (3).  said draw element  is shaped from a firm material as a metal chain, a cable  wire, a chain etc.  and extends inside said spring element  and is fixedly connected with said spring element, i. e.  the  rubber body and arranged in said manner by the manufac­ turing method, for example by vulcanizing.  end portions  of said draw element are arranged as connecting devices.   when the draw element consists of a metal chain the end  links or a portion of the end links of the chain constitutes  said connecting devices, whereby the links are arranged  to project from the spring element.  said connecting devi­ ces could be equipped with an additional link or a ring (9)  as a connecting element for the devices which are to be  connected, i. e.  for example a hauling or a drawing rope, a  bridge, a bouy, a grounding stone for a buoy, machine ele­ ments, mechanical components, automobiles etc.  for tow­ ing, mooring, anchorage, clamping etc.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
title of invention: tension spring device this invention relates to an arrangement for taking up stresses under resilient conditions and in that connection when for example bodies are connected to each other, as when towing, mooring, anchorage, damping etc. and comprising a spring element of an elastic material, preferably rubber, and further comprising at least one draw element and connecting devices. when for example a connection between bodies is desirable one uses holding or drawing ropes, chains or the like and it is often necessary and in most cases desirable to provide such holding or drawing ropes or the like with a spring element for taking up the tensile stesses which occur. thus, one wants to avoid strong pulse in the rope or the like. often, one tries to attain that the rope or the - like can be maintained in a substantially constant tension, when the rope is subjected to tension load. this is of great importance for example when the rope, chain or the like is to be used for the mooring of boats or towing of all kinds of things. there are arrangements known for taking up stresses under resilient conditions and for example helical springs shaped of a metal wire, which have been used for the mooring of boats, whereby the spring has been arranged at the mooring-place for mooring of the boat by means of a mooring rope. such conventional helical springs made of metal have also been included in holding ropes, drawing ropes or chains as a resilient element, whereby the ropes or chains have been split up in two pieces, which afterwards have been connected to each of the ends of the spring. however, there are inconveniences when using such known helical springs of metal by the fact that when the rope or chain is connected to the spring one obtains a holding rope or a drawing rope or a chain with less strength than the strength of the rope or the chain. further, it has been stated that springs made of metal can cause damages on boats, when such a spring is included in the mooring. for many reasons it is preferable to use a spring element consisting of rubber, inter alia because of the fact that the spring motion is soundless and that no scraping of for example a boat takes place. hereby, one has made use of a bar-shaped body of rubber as a spring element and to avoid the relatively great problems in consideration of the relatively low tensile strength and tearing strength of the rubber when the spring has only been made of rubber, one has arranged the holding rope or the drawing rope or the like around the bar-shaped spring in a helical curve. such a spring presents a spring strength which often is too small. when for example using said spring for mooring of buoy it has occured that it exists a need of a suitable tension spring device, whereby one has suggested that the portion
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 patent claims    tensile/ 1. arrangement for taking up/stresses under resilient conditions and in that connection for example when connecting bodies, as when towing, mooring, anchorage, damping etc. and comprising a spring element of an elastic material, preferably rubber, at least one draw element and connecting devices, which are arranged at a distance from each other and united to the draw element or united to the draw element by means of connecting elements, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that said spring element is arranged to surround or essentially surround said draw element or said draw element together with said connecting devices or said connecting elements of the connecting devices and in that said spring element shows such a shape, that the spring element divergesfrom a running along a straight line between at least two connecting devices.   2. arrangement accordingto claim 1, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that said connecting devices or said connecting elements of the connecting devices are arranged into the spring element and therewith in fixed attachment with the elastic material.   3. arrangement according to claim 1 or 2, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that said draw element or said draw element together with said connecting devices or said connecting elements of the connecting devices extend through said spring element in its extension between end portions of said spring element or corresponding portions of the spring element.   4. arrangement according to any one of the preceding claims, c h a r   act    e r i z e d in that said draw element extends inside said spring element and shows a length exceeding the length of the spring element.   5. arrangement according to any one of the preceding claims, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that said draw element is shaped from a non-elastic material. or a material showing an elasticity, which  essentially is less than the elasticity of the elastic material of the spring element and consists of a chain, a metal chain or a cable or another against tensile stresses resistance body.   6. arrangement according to claim 5, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that said draw element shows at least two bodies of material, for exemple composed of the end links of a chain, metal chain or cable, which are arranged to project from the spring element with a portion, whereby said projected portions represent said connecting devices.   7. arrangement according to claim 1, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the spring element is composed of a body, which in the main forms a shape of a s-, u-, v- or semicircle or a body showing another angled or curved extension.   8. arrangement according to claim 7, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the spring element is composed of a body, which forms shape of a u or v, whereby the free ends of the legs are arranged at an angle to the legs of said body.   9. arrangement according to claim 1 or 8, whereby said draw element consists of a chain, a metal chain, a cable or an equivalent element, which is arranged in the spring element, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that each side of an angle, leg, wrist or a corresponding portion of said spring element comprising one or more links of the chain or the like.   10. arrangement according to claim 1, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the spring element shows one or more cavities.   11. arrangement according to claim 10, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the cavities are taking up an elastic. material, which preferably shows a power of elasticity, which differs from the remaining material of the spring element.     12. arrangement according to claim 10, c h a r a c t e r i z ed in that the spring element is shaped as a polygon body, for example a body of a pyramid or a body of an ashlar.    13. arrangement according to claim 10, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the spring element shows a spherical surface and for example is shaped as a globe, a sphere, a cylinder or the like.   14. arrangeme#nt according to claim 1, 5 or 6, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the spring element forms a circular, an oval or another endless body, for example a body showing three or more edges.   15. arrangement according to claim 1, 7 or 8, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the spring element is shaped as a body showing symmetrical in rotation, whereby the axis of rotation extends through two corresponding connecting devices.   16. arrangement according to claim 15, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the spring element is shaped with an extension which in the main is located on one side of the axis of rotation.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
