<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0015249
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800903
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B02C-4/08 F23K-1/00 B02C-4/00 F23G-5/033 F23G-5/44 F23G-5/02 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
a method of comminuting for combustion such wood or cellulose material as is precompressed, or board- or strip-like per se, and an apparatus for carrying out the method
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
eriksson erik gustav l<sep>eriksson, erik gustav lennart<sep>eriksson, erik gustav lennartbjörkhagens-66050 valbergse<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
eriksson erik gustav lennart<sep>eriksson, erik gustav lennart<sep>eriksson, erik gustav lennartbjörkhagens-66050 valbergse<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a method and a machine for comminuting precompacted or board-like cellulose material, especially for feeding a stoker plant, for example, while using a roll pair (4, 5) for receiving the material, where each roll (e. g.  4) is provided about its periphery with alternating projections (6) and depressions (7) corresponding to depressions (7) and projections (6) on the second roll (5) in each such pair, which is driven with the same peripheral velocity for both rolls (4, 5).  said projections (6) and depressions (7) along the periphery and axially can have pyramidal shape, for example, the distance between the rolls being adjustable such that the sum of the radius to the crest of a projection (6) on one roll (4) and the radius to the bottom of a depression (7) on the corresponding roll (5) and complemental to said projection (6) is less that the distance between the central axes (9, 10) of the rolls. 
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
a method of comminuting for combustion such wood or cellulose material as is precompressed, or board- or strip-like ter se, and an apparatus for carrying out the method the invention relates to a method and apparatus for comminuting for combustion or gasification, suitably in conjunction with a stoker, of wood or cellulose material, for example, such as is precompressed, or board- or strip-like per se, such as waste or of cuts from wood, chip or fiber material, logging debris or household waste etc. stoking equipment is known for feeding steam boilers with wood chips, for example, wherein a screw is used to feed the chips from a hopper and into the combustion chamber of the boiler. equipment is also known, in which a moving grate feeds fuel from a fuel hopper to a water pine boiler, for example. however, for board-like or strip-like wood or cellulose material or logging debris or household waste, which by means of precompression can be spread out and precompressed, there is no suitable equipment for rational recovery of the heat from such waste material. in actual fact, about 29 of the total chip board production results in waste which is unusable for building purposes and which is at present dumped or otherwise got rid of. neither can logging debris or household waste be utilized for the generation of heat in a rational way at present. the present invention intends to remedy this deficiency, and consists primarily of a method of comminuting the material in question, wherein it is first advanced under a feed and/or spreading or precompressing means (roll or the like) and is thereafter taken in between comminuting rolls, which can be made up from rings, and arranged in pairs, suitably in direct conjunction with the combustion or gasification location, where each such roll is provided with projections and depressions formed wavily, trapezoidally, pyramidally or conically, and where the rolls in each pair are adapted in relation to each other such that the projections of one roll partly engage in the depressions of the other roll, the rolls being disposed at a distance from each other such that the substantially boardshaped material is gripped between the rolls, and during its passage therebetween is bent between the projections and depressions of the rolls until rupture occurs by exceeding the ultimate elongation, shearing and/or compression strength of the material, which is thus directly comminuted into pieces suitable for combustion or gasification. the invention also relates to a special comminuting apnaratus or machine for feeding a combustion or gasification apparatus (e.g. stoker equipment) with wood or cellulose material which is precompacted or board or strip-alike per se, for carrying out the said method, the invention substantially consisting of the machine containing at least one roll pair for receiving the material, where each roll is provided with mutually alternating projections and depressions around its periphery, corresponding to depressions and projections, respectively, on the other roll in each such pair, which is driven with the same peripheral velocity for
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims   1. a method of comminuting for combustion or gasification, suitably in conjuction with a stoker, of wood or cellulosecontaining material for example, which is precompressed or board- or strip-alike per se, such as waste or of cuts from wood, chip or fiber material, logging debris or household waste, etc., characterized in that the material (1) in question is first advanced under a feed and/or spreading or precompressing means (rolls (2) or the like) and is thereafter taken in between comminuting rolls or rings (4, 5) arranged in pairs, suitably in direct conjuction with the combustion or gasification   location(3),wh'ere    each such roll is provided with projections (6) and depressions (7) formed wavily, trapezoidally, pyramidally or   conically,.and    the rolls (4,  5) in each pair being adapted in relation to each other such that the projections (6) of one roll (4) partly engage in the depressions (7) of the other roll (5), both circumferentially and axially, the rolls (4, 5) being disposed at a distance from each other such that the substantially board-shaped material (1) is gripped between the rolls (4, 5) and during its passage therebetween is bent between the projections (6) and. depressions (7) of the rolls until rupture occurs by exceeding the ultimate elongation, shearing and/or compression strength of the material which is directly comminuted, both longitudially and transversely, into pieces (8), suitable for combustion or gasification.   2. a method as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that the distance between the rolls (4, 5) is adjustable and selected such that in a position where a projection (6) on one roll   (4)    and a depression (7) on the other roll (5) lies on a line between the centre lines (9, 10) of both rolls (4, 5), the distance between the crest of the projection (6) on the one roll (4) and the bottom of the depression (7) on the other roll (5), measured in the direction of the line, or parallel thereto, is less than the thickness of the strip- or board-like material (1), whereby the material (1) is gripped between the rolls (4, 5) and comminuted into suitable lumps or pieces   (8).        3. a method as claimed in claim 1 or 2, characterized in that the rotational velocity of the comminuting rolls (4, 5) is regulated in response to the fuel requirements of the combustion or gasification plant (3) thus fed.   4. a method as claimed in claim 3, characterized in that as far as feeding material (1) is available, the comminuting' rolls etc. (4, 5) convey possible feed excess to a buffer store to one side of the stoker feed track (11).   5. a comminuting apparatus or machine for wood or cellulose material which is precompacted or board- or stripshaped per se, specially for supplying a combustion or gasification apparatus (e.g. a stoker plant) for carrying out the method in accordance with one or more of claims 1-4, characterized in that it comprises at least one roll pair (4, 5) for receiving the material, where each roll (e.g.   4)    is provided about its periphery with mutually alternating projections   (6)and    depressions (7) corresponding to depressions (7) and projections (6), respectively, on the second roll (5) in each such pair, which are thereby driven with the same peripheral velocity for both rolls (4, 5), said projections (6) and depressions (7), along the periphery (see fig.  2) as well as axially (see   fig'.      4)    have corrugated, trapezoidal, pyramidal or conical form, the projections (6) on one roll (4) engaging in the depressions (7) corresponding thereto on the corresponding roll (5), the-distance between the rolls being adjustable such that the sum of the radius up to the crest of a projection (6) on one roll (4) and the radius to the bottom of the depression (7) on the corresponding roll (5) complemental to said crest is less than the distance between the central axes (9, 10) of the rolls.   6. a machine as claimed in claim 5, characterized by an adjusting means (12) for the distance between the rolls (4, 5), which is adapted for adjustment so that the distance constituting the difference between the distance la between the central axes (9, 10) of the rolls (4, 5) and the sum of one roll's (4) radius d1 up to the crest of a projection (6) and the corresponding 2 d2 roll's radius   2    to the bottom of the depression (7) on this roll complemental to said crest will be less than the thickness    ts of the fed-in layer, or that la - ( d1 + d2 )  2 7 # ts.           7.      a      machine    as claimed in claim 6,   characterizedrshlts    its adjusting means (12) for the distance between the axes (9, 10) of both rolls (4, 5) is controlled mechanically or hydraulically.   8. a machine as claimed in claim 7, characterized in that the adjustment means (12) consists of screws arranged between the bearings of the rolls, and driven by a reversible electric motor.   9. a machine as claimed in claim 7, characterized in that adjustment takes place with the aid of the movement of two hydraulic pistons (12) against spacer blocks corresponding to the thickness of the fed-in layer (1), it being possible for the hydraulic pressure momentarily to be reduced to zero on changing these blocks.   10. a machine as claimed in claim 9, characterized in that it is provided with a safety device (13) which, when an incompressible disturbing body is fed between the rolls (4, 5) momentarily unloads the hydraulic pressure with the aid of a bleed valve connected to a pressure accumulator, the accumulator temporarily receiving (via the pipe 3) the excess of hydraulic liquid caused by the introduction of the disturbing body between the rolls (4, 5).   11. a machine as claimed in claim 10, characterized in that it is provided on the discharge side of the rolls (4, 5) with a conveying track (11), which can be temporarily moved to one side, or raised so that the disturbing body can be removed 12. a machine as claimed in claim s, charachterized in that the reversible electric motor is controlled by a thickness sensor arranged upstream of the machine (4, 5, 12, 13).   13. a machine as claimed in one or more of the preceding claims 5-12, characterized in that the rolls (4, 5) of the machine are driven via a reduction, e.g. a worm and wheel, by means of an electric or hydraulic motor or an internal combustion engine of a power which is small in comparison to the comminuting capacity of the machine (4, 5, 12, 13), and suitably at a high rate of revolutions.     14. a machine as claimed in claim 13, characterized in that the driving motor is regulated either with respect to the power requirement for the combustion or gasification plant (3) or to the amount of material supplied to the machine (4, 5, 12, 13) on its input side.   15. a machine as claimed   i,n    claim 14, characterized in that for the last-mentioned case, a possible quantity of fuel exceeding the power requirement for the combustion or gasification plant (3) is supplied to a buffer store between the machine (4, 5, 12, 13) and said plant (3).   16. a machine as claimed in claim 151 characterized in that the driving motor is regulated with the help of a level monitor in the buffer store.   17. a machine as claimed in claim 6, characterized in that the rolls (4, 5) are made as cast iron or forged roll rings (15) placed on, and keyed to a steel tube (14).   18. a machine as claimed in claim 17, characterized in that the roll rings (15) mounted on the steel tube (14) are provided with projections (6) in the shape of pyramids around their periphery.   19. a machine as claimed in claim   13,    characterized in that the roll rings are mounted on the steel tube (14) such that those with even numbers are displaced one half of the pitch between the pyramids in relation to the roll rings with odd numbers.    20. a machine as claimed in one or more of claims 5-19, characterized in that the outer diameter   d1    of the roll rings (15) is within the range of 40 to 120 cm, and that their width is from 5 to 10 cm, and that the height of the pyramids is between 5 and 10   cm.      21. a machine as claimed in one or more of claims 5-17, characterized in that the connecting line between the axes (9, 10) of two coacting rolls forms anobtuseangle with the input direction of the material (1), thereby to facilitate its insertion between the rolls (4,   5) (e.g.    when feeding is done from a stack of boards)  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
