<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0007318
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800206
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
F16H-1/00 F16D-3/24 F16D-3/16 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
constant velocity universal joint.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
grosser christian e<sep>grosser, christian e.<sep>grosser, christian e.214 sleepy hollow roadrichmond virginia 23229us<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
grosser christian e<sep>grosser, christian e.<sep>grosser, christian e.214 sleepy hollow roadrichmond virginia 23229us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
the rolling-contact universal joint rotatably transmits power from one shaft to another without variations in velocity, at relatively large angles of deflection between input and output shafts.  a cluster of gear segments capable of transmitting comparatively high torques over a wide range of speeds are interposed between interdigitated forks.  the relative motions between the load carrying elements are rolling contacts between gear segments.  the conical shape of cooperating gear surfaces affords opportunity for adjustments to eliminate backlash in the assembly or to take up wear. 
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
constant velocity universal joint in wide use and possessing various designs in power transmission machinery is the universal joint (sometimes termed knuckle joint) which has been long existant in the art of machine building. in its earlierst and simplest forms such is familiarly known as the hooke's or cardan type, consisting essentially of two forks connected through an intermediate block straddled by the forks and journalled thereto at right angles to each other. the hooke's-cardan type of joint has the virtue of simplicity combined with capability of accommodating high torques at very large angles of deflection between input and output shafts. however, the dynamic performance is not ideal, since there is a variation between the angular motions of the connected shafts, which has unacceptably severe inertial load consequences at: high speeds, large deflection angles, or with substantial masses connected by the cooperating shafts. elementary analysis shows that the angular variation characteristic of the hooke's or cardan joint is described by the relationship tan < = tan 4 sec /\a where q and ss are the angles of rotation of the input and output shafts and li is the deflection angle between the shafts. a typical value of the variation is seen at 2 = 360 which is at the upper limit reached in most high speed applications such as automatic front wheel drives, axles and transmission shafts. at this deflection the output shaft will alternately be angularly advanced or retarded, each twice per shaft revolution, to peak values of + 60. the corresponding varifr tion in velocity is + 24% referred to the input speed. it is clear that such variations relative position would be awkward in precision control applications where it is important to maintain accuracy of motion from one point in a machine drive to another point via a universal joint used to change shaft direction. the substantially large cyclical variations in velocity create intolerable vibrations and acceleration loads where massive loads are being driven. despite the undesirable characteristic of non-uniformity in the hooke's or cardan joint, its simplicity has led to extensive application where speeds and inertial loads are low and demands for precision of position are minimal. but increasing areas of application are developing where the consequences of motion irregularity are unacceptable for reasons of noise, excessive vibration, imprecision of control, or consequent wear. numerous examples can be cited such as the automotive front heel drives, helicopter rotor drives, marine inboardoutboard propellor shafts, hydraulic pump swash plate drives, etc. beginning with the era of abruptly higher machine and trensportats speeds circa the end of world war i, intensive efforts were made to find substitutes (for the hocl.ses-cardan type of joint) which would have uniform velocity performance. a small number of successful joints have been found, notably the rzeppa and weiss rolling ball joints, and a variety of sliding block types of which the tracta appears to be the most frequently used. in addition a number of "kinematic" models have appeared which are theoretical laboratory solutions of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:    1. a constant velocity universal joint for rotatably transmitting power from one shaft to another without substantial variations in velocity at relatively large angles of deflection between shafts without substantial backlash comprising:  drive shaft coupling means for coupling the joint with a drive shaft;  driven shaft coupling means for coupling the joint with a driven shaft;  a first pair of bifurcated forks extending from the drive shaft coupling means and including a first fork and a second fork each having spaced-free ends;  a second pair of bifurcated forks extending from the driven shaft coupling means and being interposed between and in space relationship with the first fork pair, the second fork pair including a third fork and a fourth fork each having spaced-free ends;  each fork having opposed side faces;  and  torque transmitting means interposed between and coupling the opposed side faces of the adjacent forks while filling the space therebetween when the shafts are disposed at an angle relative to one another and the drive shaft is rotated and the driven shaft is ro  tated by the universal joint.    2. a constant velocity universal joint for rotatably transmitting power from one shaft to another without substantial variations in velocity at relatively large angles of deflection between shafts without substantial backlash comprising:  drive shaft coupling means for coupling the joint with a drive shaft;  driven shaft coupling means for coupling the joint with a driven shaft;  a first pair of bifurcated forks extending from the drive shaft coupling means and including a first fork and a second fork each having spaced-free ends;  a second pair of bifurcated forks extending from the driven shaft coupling means and being interposed between and in space relationship with the first fork pair, the second fork pair including a third fork and a fourth fork each having spaced-free ends;  each fork having opposed side faces;  and  gear segment torque transmitting means interposed  between and coupling the opposed side faces of the adjacent forks while filling the space therebetween when the  shafts are disposed at an angle relative to one another and the drive shaft is rotated and the driven shaft is rotated by the universal joint.    3. the invention in accordance with claim 2 wherein the gear segment means includes a gear segment on each side face at the fork-free end.    4. the invention in accordance with claim 2 wherein each gear segment is beveled.    5. the invention in accordance with claim 4 wherein the gear segment means includes a pinion segment meshed with each gear segment.    6. the invention in accordance with claim 5 wherein each pinion segment is beveled.    7. the invention in accordance with claim 6 wherein interengagement means are provided for interengaging each pair of pinion segments between the first and fourth fork, fourth and second fork, second and third fork, and third and first fork whereby the pinion segments will rock back and forth relative to the associated meshed gear segment through the associated interengagement means when the shafts are disposed at an angle relative to one another and the drive shaft is rotated and the driven shaft is rotated by the universal joint.      8. the invention in accordance with claim 7 wherein the interengagement means includes meshed spur-gear segments, with each spur-gear segment extending from and associated with a pinion segment.    9. the invention in accordance with claim 8 wherein each pinion segment and its extending spur-gear seg ment is diametrically opposed from another pinion segment with extending spur-gear segment and each of the pair of diametrically opposed pinion segments with extending spur-gear segments being connected to counteract outward thrust applied thereto during rotation of said shafts,  10. the invention in accordance with claim 9 wherein the connection of diametrically opposed pinion segments with extending spur-gear segments is by a tension means which balances the opposing radial outward thrust imposed on the pinion segments when under torque load without essentially any relative radial movement of the pinion segments thereby eliminating the need for thrust bearings.    11. the invention in accordance with claim 2 wherein the gear segment means includes a plurality of pinion segments, each face of the forks having a pinion segment associated therewith.    12. the invention in accordance with claim 11 wherein each pinion segment is beveled.      13. the invention in accordance with claim 2 wherein the gear segment means includes a plurality of segments each having interengagement means for interengaging a pair of segments between adjacent forks.    14. the invention in accordance with claim 13 wherein each segment is diametrically opposed from another segment and each of the pair of diametrically opposed segments being connected to counteract outward thrust applied thereto during rotation of said shafts,  15. the invention in accordance with claim 14 wherein the connection of diametrically opposed segments is by a tension means which balances the opposing radial outward thrust imposed on the segments when under torque load without essentially any relative radial movement of the segments thereby eliminating the need for thrust bearings.    16. a constant velocity universal joint for rotatably transmitting power from one shaft to another without substantial variations in velocity at rela  tively large angles of deflection between shafts without substantial backlash comprising;  drive shaft coupling means for coupling the joint with a drive shaft;  driven shaft coupling means for coupling the joint with a driven shaft;  a first pair of bifurcated forks extending from the drive shaft coupling means, and including a first fork and a second fork each having spaced free ends;  a second pair of bifurcated forks extending from the driven shaft coupling means and being interposed between and in spaced relationship with the first fork pair, the second fork pair including a third fork and a fourth fork each having spaced free ends;  each fork having opposed side faces and a gear segment on each side face at the fork free end; ;    a   pin,,#n##segment    meshed with each gear segment;  interengagement means for interengaging each pair of pinion segments between the first and fourth fork, fourth and second fork, second and third fork, and third and first fork whereby the pinion segment rocked back and forth relative to the associated meshed gear segment through the associated interengagement means when the shafts are disposed at an angle relative to one another, and the drive shaft is rotated and the driven shaft is rotated by the universal joint.     17. the invention in accordance with claim 16 wherein the gear segment includes bevel gear teeth.    18. the invention in accordance with claim 16 wherein the pinion segment includes bevel gear teeth.    19. the invention in accordance with claim 16 where in the interengagement means includes meshed spur-gear segments, with each spur-gear segment extending from and associated with a pinion segment.   20. the invention in accordance with claim   19      where-    in each pinion segment and its extending spur-gear segment is diametrically opposed from'another pinion segment with extending spur-gear segment and each of the pair of diametrically opposed pinion segments with extending spur-gear segments being connected to counteract outward thrust applied thereto during rotation of said shafts.    21. the invention in accordance with claim 20 wherein the connection of diametrically opposed pinion segments with extending spur-gear segments is by a tension means which balances the opposing radial outward imposed on the pinion segments when under torque load without essentially any relative radial movement of the pinion segments thereby eliminating the need for thrust bearings.    22. a constant velocity universal joint for rotatably transmitting power from one shaft to another comprising gear segments support means comprising at least two opposed unconnected side faces, a gear segment on each side face, a pinion segment meshed with each gear segment, interengagement means for interengaging each pair of pinion segments between the opposed side faces, and whereby the pinion segments are adapted to rock back and forth relative to the associated meshed gear segment through the associated interengagement means when the shafts are disposed at an angle relative to one another.      23. the invention in accordance with claim 22 wherein there are four pairs of the opposed side faces and a corresponding number of pairs of each of the segments.    24. the invention in accordance with claim 23 wherein the gear segment includes bevel gear teeth.    25. the invention in accordance with claim 23 wherein the pinion segment includes bevel gear teeth.    26. the invention in accordance with claim 23 wherein the interengagement means includes meshed spur-gear segments, with each spur-gear segment extending from and associated with a pinion segment.    27, the invention in accordance with claim 26 wherein each pinion segment and its extending spurgear segment is diametrically opposed from another pinion segment with extending spur-gear segment and each#of the pair of diametrically opposed pinion segments with extending spur-gear segments being connected to counteract outward thrust applied thereto during rotation of said shafts.    28, the invention in accordance with claim 27 wherein the connection of diametrically opposed pinion segments with extending spur-gear segments is by a tension means which balances the opposing radial outward thrust imposed on the pinion segments when under  torque load without essentially any relative radial movement of the pinion segments thereby eliminating the need for thrust bearings.    29. the invention in accordance with claim 27 wherein adjustment means are provided for relocating the radial position, of the pinion segments to take up wear resulting from operation of the universal joint.    30. a constant, velocity universal joint for rotatably transmitting power from one shaft to another comprising gear segments support means comprising at least two opposed unconnected side faces, a gear segment on each side face, a pinion segment meshed with each gear segment, interengagement means for interengaging each pair of pinion segments between the opposed side faces, and whereby the pinion segments are adapted to rock back and forth relative to the associated meshed gear segment through the associated interengagement means when the shafts are disposed at an angle relative to one another and a cluster of gears interposed between said side faces to transmit torque by means of tangential pressure contacts carried around as near as possible to the out periphery of the cluster where the load carrying surfaces have the greatest mechanical advantage.    31. the invention in accordance with claim 30 wherein the gear-pitch surfaces are so constructed,  contoured and arranged to provide for their intimate contact in all relative positions of the input members in rotation and deflection.      32.    the constant velocity universal joint for rotatably transmitting power from one shaft to another comprising in-put and out-put shaft forks, beveled gear segments mounted on the forks, beveled split pinions acting as idlers between the bevel gear segments for transmitting by pressure through them the torque forces from one fork to another during rotation of the shafts.    33. the invention in accordance with claim 32, wherein the beveled pinions are split in half along their axes and the split surfaces are shaped as spur gear segments so that the two halves of the pinion are capable of rocking on each other in such a way that the space between opposing forks is always exactly filled when said opposing forks assume a relative angular attitude to each other.       54.    the invention in accordance with claim 32 wherein adjustment means are provided for relocating the radial position of the pinion tooth segments to take up where resulting from operation of the universal joint.      35. the invention in accordance with claim 33 wherein the forks and gear segments cooperate in defining a spherical envelope, the segments presenting conical gear surfaces that terminate at a common center which is in the center of the sphere and the inter section between the two shaft axes which center is the origin of all of the axes about which the joint deflects.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
