<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0017369
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19801015
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
F16H-3/02 F16H-3/00 F16H-3/08 F16H-3/083 F16H-3/36 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
change-speed gear mechanism.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
abonhill ltdgb<sep>abonhill limited<sep>abonhill limitedsuite 66, kent house 87 regent streetlondon w1 7hfgb<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
spitzer egongb<sep>spitzer, egon<sep>spitzer, egon2/1 northwood hall hornsey lanelondon n6 5pqgb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a change speed gear mechanism comprises a hollow,  frusto-conical, rotary shell (6) having rings (12-16) of gear  teeth disposed about its internal periphery, an input shaft (2)  rotatable relatively to the shell, an output gear (18) fixed to  the shell, and a change gear unit (19) mounted internally of  the shell for cooperation with the gear rings on the shell.  the  change gear unit (19) is coupled to the input shaft (2) and is  mounted for rotation about an axis parallel to the generatrix  of the shell.  it comprises a series of gear cages (24-28)  associated respectively with the gear rings (12-16) on the  shell, each cage including a ring of gear teeth expandable  into mesh with the associated gear ring on the shell so as to  transmit rotation from a selected gear cage to the shell.  the  gear cages of the change gear unit are selectively operable to  provide different transmission ratios between the input shaft  and the output gear.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
improvements in change-speed gear mechanisms the present invention relates to change-speed gear mechanisms and, more particularly, although not exclusively, to change-speed gear mechanisms for use in the transmissions of motor vehicles. the present invention consists in a change-speed gear mechanism characterized by a frusto-conical or disclike rotary member having gear teeth disposed substantially parallel to the generatrix of the member, an input or output shaft rotatable relatively to the rotary member, an output or input gear fixed to the rotary member coaxially therewith so as to be rotatable with the member, a gear change unit mounted for rotation about an axis substantially parallel to the generatrix of the rotary member and comprising a series of gear cages arranged coaxially with respect to the axis of the change gear unit, said gear cages respectively including rings of gear teeth which rings are selectively expandable radially of the cages into mesh with the gear teeth on the rotary member so as to transmit rotation between the rotary member and a selected gear cage, and said rotary member and gear cages being adapted to provide different gear ratio connections when the.gear cages are respectively in mesh with the rotary member,and gear means coupling the change gear unit to the input or output shaft. in a preferred embodiment, the rotary member is a hollow, frusto-conical rotary member having the gear teeth disposed about its internal conical surface substantially parallel to the generatrix thereof, aiid the gear change unit is mounted internally of the rotary member. the different gear ratios may be obtained by internally forming thc rotary member with a series of frustoconical sections respectively having increasing numbers of gear teeth from tlle innermost sections, which is adjacent the smaller diameter end of the rotary member, to the outermost section adjacent its larger diameter end. these sections cooperate respectively with the gear cages of the change gear unit, each of which cages has the same number of gear teeth. alterllatively, the intenial conical surface of the rotary member may be formed with a single set of gear teeth which extend axially along the internal surface and taper along their lellzths so that they are wider adjacent the larder diameter end of the rotary member, and the gear cages cooperating with these tapered gear teeth are respectively provided with different numbers of gear teeth. the ring of gear teeth mounted in each cage may be expandable by a shuttle member which is slidable axially within the change gear unit and is controllable so as selectively to expand the teeth of the cages. preferably, this shuttle is of such a length that it initially expands the teeth of one cage into mesh with the teeth of tulle rotary member before permittflig the teeth of the adjacent, previously-engaged cage to disengage from the rotary member. the shuttle member may be colltrollable by a manually operable gear selector or an automatic gear selecting mechanism. the change-speed gear mechanism according to the invention is particularly suitable for control by
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
   claims      1. a change-speed gear mechanism characterized by a   frusto-coiiical    or disc-like rotary member (6) having gear teeth (12-16) disposed substantially parallel to the generatrix of the member, an input or output shaft (2) rotatable relatively to the rotary   member,    an output or input   gear    (18) fixed to the rotary member coaxially   therewith    so as to be rotatable with   the    member, a gear change unit (19)   moulted    for rotation about an axis substantially parallel to the generatrix of the rotary member and comprising a series of   gear    cages (24¯28)   arranged    coaxially with respect to the axis of the change gear unit,  said   gear    cages respectively including rings of gear teeth (29) which rings are selectively expandable radially of the cages into mesh with the gear teeth (12-16)   on      the    rotary member so as to transmit rotation between the rotary member (g)   aiid    a selected gear cage (24-28), and said rotary   member    and gear cages being adapted to provide different gear ratio   connections    when the gear cages are respectively in mesh with   the    rotary   member,      aiid    gear means (42,43)   coupling    tile   change      gear    unit to   the    input or output shaft (2).   2.   a    change-speed gear   mechanism    as claimed in claim   1,    wherein the rotary member is a hollow,   frusto-conical    rotary member (6) having the gear teeth (12-16) disposed about its internal conical surface   substantially    parallel to   tulle    generatrix thereof, and the   gear    change   unit      (19)    is   mounted      internally    of the rotary   member.         3.      a      change-speed    gear   mechanism    as   claimed    in claim 1 or 2, wherein the gear   teeth    on   the    rotary member   (6)      comprise      a    series of gear ring   sections    (12-16) disposed coaxially with respect to the axis of rotation of the rotary member and respectively having increasing numbers of gear   teeth    from   the      inllermost      section      (12)    to the outermost   section    (16),  said ring sections cooperating   respectively    with   tiie      gear    cages   (211-283)    of the   changed     gear unit, each of which cages has   tlle    same   number    of gear   teeth    (29).   4. a   change-speed    gear mechanism as claimed in claim 1 or 2,   wherein    the gear teeth on the rotary member (6) comprise a   single    set of gear teeth which extend substantially parallel to   the    generatrix of the rotary member and taper along their lengths from their   inner    to their outer ends, and wherein the gear cages (24-28) cooperating with   tulle    tapered gear teeth are respectively provided with different numbers of gear teeth (29).   5. a   ellange-speed    gear   mechanism    as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the ring of gear teeth (29) mounted in each cage   (24-28)    is expandable by a shuttle member (38) which is slidable axially   with-    in the change gear unit (19) and is controllable so as selectively to expand the teeth of the cages.   6. a   c#iaiige-speed    gear mechanism as claimed in claim 5, wherein the shuttle (3s) is of such a   length    that it initially expands the teeth (29) of one cage into   mesh    with the teeth of the rotary member (6) before permitting the teeth (29) of the   adjacent,      previousjy-engaged    cage to disengage from the rotary member.   7. a   change-speed    gear mechanism as claimed in claim 5 or 6,   wherein    the   shuttle    member (38) is   controllable    by a manually operable gear selector or   all    automatic gear selecting mechanism.    8. a   change-speed    gear   mechanism    as claimed   in    any   one    of the   preceding    claims, wherein the   input    or output shaft (2) is coupled to the inner   end    of the change gear unit (19) and the output gear (18) is disposed at or   adjacent      the    outer periphery or larger diameter end of the rotary member.   9. a change-speed gear unit as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the input shaft (2) is coupled to an engine via a   clutch    mechanism (3)   and      the    output gear (18) is coupled to a propeller shaft via a gear   train    comprising a reversing mechanism.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
