<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0012011
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800611
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
A01G-9/02 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
apparatus and method for producing an upright array of plants.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
hope james<sep>hope, james<sep>hope, jamesbirds millbroxburn, west lothian eh52 5pbgb<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
hope james<sep>hope, james<sep>hope, jamesbirds millbroxburn, west lothian eh52 5pbgb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
apparatus for use in producing an upright array of plants  includes a number of elongate open-topped containers (10)  located horizontally but in different planes, e. g.  a column of  containers located one below the other.  several columns may be provided.  the containers have false bottoms (24) on to which a  supply of plant growing medium (31) is placed.  the space  below the false bottom provides for a water reservoir (26).  the  containers are fed by a gravity water feed means including an  inlet pipe (12) feeding water into a container, and an outlet (18)  through which excess water passes to the next lower con­ tainer.  the outlet is located at a height above the container  base (14) so that a water reservoir of a predetermined max­ imum depth can be provided.  the outlet may be a hole (18) in  the base narrowed by an upstanding tube (20) the height of  which determines the maximum depth of the reservoir.  the  containers are suspended from pairs of straps by means of  co-operating flanges on the straps and opposed ends of the  containers.  when the apparatus is erected and filled with  plants, a visually pleasing arrangement can be achieved in  many forms for useful as well as decorative purposes.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
apparatus for use in producing an upright array of plants. this invention relates to apparatus for use in producing an upright array of plants. according to one aspect of the present invention, there is provided apparatus for use in producing an upright array of plants comprising a plurality of containers spaced in different horizontal planes and interconnected by water feed means which includes a water inlet tube communicating with the base of each container and a water outlet located in each container at a height above the base to permit formation of a water reservoir in, and overflow from each container, said outlet being connected to the inlet tube of the adjacent lower container, the outlet of the lowermost container communicating with a drain or other water collection means. preferably, each water outlet aperture is in the base of the container and has an upstanding surround over which excess water flows. preferably, each container includes a false bottom on which medium for the plants can be located, said false bottom having a plurality of apertures to receive capillary means. preferably also, the water inlet tube extends through said false bottom and has outlet ports therebelow. preferably, the inlet pipe and overflow pipe are concentric, the inlet pipe having an outlet port on a level lower than that of the outlet of the overflow pipe. a series of pluralities of containers may be provided each plurality of containers being spaced in different vertical planes; preferably also, the uppermost container of each series is interconnected with a single source of feed water and, preferably, the lowermost container of each series is interconnected to a single outlet to a drain or other water collection means. preferably also, the containers have support engagement means and support members are provided for engaging said means, said support members comprising straps having engagement means to co-operate with the engagement means on the container, the straps being located in vertical disposition and spaced apart horizontally to receive one or more containers therebetween preferably, said straps are suspended and have co-operating fitment means permitting a plurality of straps to be connected end to end. preferably also, each strap has on one side a series of flanges and an alternating series of holes, one of which is at one end of the strap, and a stud at the other end adapted to engage a hole of an adjacent strap, thereby to form an elongate strapping adapted for location in opposed pairs to receive containers therebetween, said containers having means for engaging flanges on the opposed strappings. according to another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method of arranging plant containers comprising the steps of locating a plurality of containers in different horizontal planes, providing a cascading water feed in the form of a water inlet to each container and a water outlet in each container connected to the water inlet of the adjacent lower container and locating each water outlet at a height which allows a predetermined
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims   1. apparatus for use in producing an upright array of plants comprising a plurality of containers spaced in different horizontal planes and interconnected by water feed means which includes a water inlet tube communicating with the base of each container and a water outlet located in each container at a height above the base to permit formation of a water reservoir in, and over-flow from, each container, said outlet being connected to the inlet tube of the adjacent lower container, the outlet of the lowermost container communicating with a drain or other water collection means.      2.    apparatus as claimed in claim 1, in which each water outlet aperture is in the base of the container and has an upstanding surround over which excess water flows.   3. apparatus as claimed in claim 1 or 2, in which each container includes a false bottom on which medium for the plants can be located, said false bottom having a plurality of apertures to receive capillary means. preferably also, the water inlet tube extends through said false bottom and has outlet ports therebelow.   4. apparatus as claimed in claim 1, 2 or 3 in which series of pluralities of containers is provided each plurality of containers being spaced in different vertical planes.   5. apparatus as claimed in claim 4, in which the uppermost container of each series is interconnected with a single source of feed water.   6. apparatus as claimed in claim 4 or 5, in which the lowermost container of each series is interconnected to a single outlet to a drain or other water collection means.     7. apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 6, in which the containers have support engagement means and support members are provided for engaging said means, said support members comprising straps having engagement means to co-operate with the engagement means on the containers, straps located in vertical disposition and spaced apart horizontally to receive one or more containers therebetween.   8. apparatus as claimed in claim 7, in which said straps are suspended and have co-operating fitment means permitting a plurality of straps to be connected end to end. preferably, each strap has on one side a series of flanges and an alternating series of holes, one of which is at one end of the strap, and a stud at the other end adapted to engage a hole of   'an    adjacent strap, thereby to form an elongate   strappingadapted    for location in opposed pairs to receive containers therebetween, said containers having means for engaging flanges on the opposed strappings.    9. a method of arranging plant containers comprising the steps of locating a plurality of containers in different horizontal planes, providing a cascading water feed in the form of a water inlet to each container and a water outlet in each container connected to the water inlet of the adjacent lower container and locating each water outlet at a height which allows a predetermined depth of water to collect in the respective container during feeding and after which excess water will overflow through said outlet into the adjacent lower container and feeding the excess water from the lowermost container to a drain or other water collection means.   10. apparatus for use in producing an upright array of plants substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to the accompanying drawings.   11. a method of arranging plant containers substantially as hereinbefore described.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
