<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0010110
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800430
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
G01B-11/24 G07C-3/00 G01B-11/245 B29C-45/76 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
defect detecting device.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
shibata ituojp<sep>shibata shuichijp<sep>yamaguchi noborujp<sep>shibata, ituo <sep>shibata, shuichi<sep>yamaguchi, noboru  <sep>shibata, ituo6-14 matsukaze-chohiratsuka-shi kanagawa-kenjp<sep>shibata, shuichi1-30-26 gotenhiratsuka-shi kanagawa-kenjp<sep>yamaguchi, noboru1101-1 azamasakam isogo-machiisogo-ku yokohama-shijp<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
shibata ituo<sep>shibata, ituo<sep>shibata, ituo6-14 matsukaze-chohiratsuka-shi kanagawa-kenjp<sep>shibata, shuichi1-30-26 gotenhiratsuka-shi kanagawa-kenjp<sep>yamaguchi, noboru1101-1 azamasakam isogo-machiisogo-ku yokohama-shijp<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a visible image of an apparatus including a movable  element (2a) to be watched is formed on the crt of a televi­ sion (20) by means of an industrial television camera (10).  one  or more photosensors (30 a-h) are provided on the face plate  (21) of the crt to receive light from the image of the  apparatus.  when the movable element (2a) of the apparatus is  moved from an original position, the output of the photosen­ sor is changed.  thus, it is electrically detected whether or not  the movable element (2a) exists in its given position by watch­ ing the output level of the photosensor.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
background of the invention field of the invention this invention relates to a non-contact type defect detecting device for detecting whether or not parts or elements of apparatus or systems are accurately located in or removed from some predetermined positions, and more particularly to a non-contact type defect detecting device for detecting whether or not an element or a part of an apparatus or system is precisely positioned at or completely removed from a predetermined position at a certain time of an operating cycle of the apparatus or system. this invention is particularly applicable to a watching device in a plastic injection molding system for watching the incomplete separation of the molded article from the mold. description of the prior art apparatus or systems generally include movable parts or elements which are to be moved relative to other parts. in order to precisely operate the apparatus or systems, such movable parts or elements must be moved in order. if the movable parts or elements are not precisely positioned at a predetermined position with respect to other elements where the elements should be positioned at a certain time of an operating cycle of the apparatus or systems, the apparatus or systems would get out of order, and sometimes would be damaged. in order to watch whether or not the movable part are moved in order, or in order to ensure that the movable parts are precisely moved in response to movement of other parts, there have conventionally been used limit switches, micro switches or photoelectric switches which are disposed at the position to see if the movable parts are moved to or from the predetermined position. however, the limit switch or the micro switch has a drawback in that they must be located close to the apparatus and put into direct ontact w"th the movable parts or elements (herinafter simpl referred to as movable parts). accordingly, the limit switch or the micro switch cannot be used unless therm is a space for the switch to be located in contact with the movable parts and the switch is able to be in direct contact with them. when the kinds of switches cannot be used, photoelectric switches can be used. however, the photoelectric switches must be accurately located with respect to the movable parts so that they are surely actuated in response to the movement of the movable parts. accordingly, there is required a long time and a skill when the location of the photoelectric switches is changed to change te operational mode of the apparatus or system. in a plastic injection molding machine, a molten plastic material is injected under pressure into a closed mold cavity formed between a movable mold half and a fixed mold half to fill the cavity. the movable half is moved away from the fixed half to open the mold after the plastic material is filled and cooled in the cavity, and the hardened article is removed from the cavity. then, the movable half is moved toward
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims   1. a defect detecting device for detecting whether an element of an apparatus or system is in its predetermined position comprising an image forming means for forming a visible image of the apparatus or system on an image forming medium, a photosensor mounted on the image forming medium to receive light from a portion of the image formed thereon and give an output indicative of the   bright-    ness thereof, and a determining circuit connected with said photosensor for determining whether the element is at the predetermined position according to the output of the photosensor.   2. a defect detecting device as defined in claim 1 wherein said image forming means is a television camera and said image forming means is a cathode ray tube of a television set.   3. a defect detecting device as defined in claim 2 wherein said television camera includes a color filter attached to a taking lens thereof.   4. a defect detecting device as defined in claim 1 wherein said image forming means is an optical lens system and said image forming medium is a focusing plate.   5. a defect detecting device as defined in claim 4 wherein said optical lens system includes a color  filter attached thereto.   6. a plastic injection mold watching device for detecting whether a hardened plastic article remains in a movable mold half or in a fixed mold half of the mold in a molding machine after the plastic article ejecting process, said device comprising, an   image      --orfing    means for   forming    a visible image of an inner surface of one of said mold halves on an image forming medium, a photosensor mounted on the image forming medium to receive light from a portion of the image formed thereon and give an output indicative of the brightness thereof, and a determining circuit connected with said photosensor for determining whether the hardened plastic article remains in the mold half according to the output of the photosensor immediately after the plastic article has been ejected.   7. a plastic injection mold watching device as defined in claim 6 wherein said determining circuit accomplishes said determination by comparing the output of the photosensor with a predetermined standard value.   8. aplastic injection mold watching device as defined in claim 7 wherein said standard value is determined between the output of the photosensor when it receives light from the image of the mold half and the output   the    same when it receives light from the image of the plastic article.     9. a plastic injection mold watching device as defined in claim 8 wherein said standard value is automatically shifted depending on the level of the ambient light according to the output of an additional photosensor which is disposed to always receive light from the image of the mold half.   10. a plastic injection mold watching device as defined in claim 7 wherein said image forming means is disposed to form a visible image of the movable mold half and said determining circuit further includes a circuit which is actuated immediately before the plastic article is ejected to confirm that the whole plastic article is carried by the movable mold half   by. com-    paring the output of the photosensor immediately before the plastic article is ejected with the standard value.   11. a plastic injection mold watching device as defined in claim 6 wherein said determining circuit measures the difference between the outputs of the photosensor immediately before and after the plastic article is ejected to determine that the whole plastic article is moved from the fixed mold half being carried by the movable mold half and completely ejected therefrom when the measured difference is larger than a predetermined value.   12. a plastic injection mold watching device as defined in claim 6 wherein said image forming means comprises an industrial television camera and said image forming medium comprises a cathode ray tube of a television set connected with the television camera.     13. a plastic injection mold watching device as defined in claim 12 wherein said television camera includes a color filter attached to the taking lens thereof.   14. a plastic injection mold watching device as defined in claim 13 wherein the luminance of the plastic article is higher than that of the mold and said color filter   selective y    transmits the spectral range of the color of the plastic article, thereby enhancing the contrast of the imaqe formed on the cathode ray tube.   15. a plastic injection mold watching device as defined in claim 13 wherein the luminance of the plastic article is lower than that of the mold and said color filter is does not transmit the spectral range of the color of the plastic article, thereby enhancing the contrast of the image formed on the cathode ray tube.    16. a plastic injection mold watching device as defined in claim 12 wherein said television set includes a means for carrying out a gamma collection.   17. a plastic injection mold watching device as defined in claim 16 wherein said   gamma    value is larger than unit to   oitrvel    enhance the brightness of an image of light color and enhance the contrast.   18. a plastic injection mold watching device as defined in claim 16 wherein said gamma value is smaller than   unt    to positively lower the brightness of an image of dark color and enhance the contrast.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
