<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0016299
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19801001
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
H04N-1/393 G03G-15/22 G03G-15/32 G03B-27/68 <main>G06F-15/20</main> G06T-3/40 G03G-15/00 H04N-1/04 G03F-7/20 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
system for and method of reproducing an image.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
ibmus<sep>international business machines corporation<sep>international business machines corporationold orchard roadarmonk, n.y. 10504us<sep>international business machines corporation <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
shirley robert edward<sep>shirley, robert edward<sep>shirley, robert edward1133 east lake roadcharlotte, nc 28215us<sep>shirley, robert edward<sep>shirley, robert edward1133 east lake roadcharlotte, nc 28215us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
an image represented as an array of digitally valued  picture elements is selectively reduced or expanded in size by  addition or subtraction of rows and lines of picture elements  at positions which are the closest approximation to the newly  scaled base, the picture elements corresponding to grey scale  values.  reproducing a given image is scanned by photodetec­ tor elements (18).  the added lines are duplicative of the next  adjacent line.  subsequent lines of picture elements are shifted  to close the gaps.  a dot generator array (such as ink jet array,  cathode ray tube, electrostatic or thermal recording system)  responsive to the digital values of the picture elements gener­ ates the image in scanning fashion across a copy sheet at a  modified scale factor in a single or in successive scans, which  may occur at the same location or after transmission of the  digitally valued pictured data to a different location.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
system for and method of reproducing an image this invention relates to systems for and methods of reproducing an image, and seeks to provide for reproduction of an original image in a reproduced image of selected scale, which may be enlarged or reduced. the complex nature of contemporary society has created a need for an economical means quickly to reproduce printed materials. this need has been filled by numerous copy machines with the dry paper copier foremost in the field. with the advent of these machines, there has been a widespread growth in the manipulation, transmission and recordal of image data in a wide variety of forms. for a great many applications, the extemely high resolutions achievable with photographic films and other continuous tone media are not needed and copiers of low resolution utilizing digital imaging techniques or line scanning techniques have proved to generate acceptable copy quality at a lower unit cost. in these latter systems, a line resolution of the order of 0.1 mm is generally acceptable and capable of producing photographic grey scale, half tone and line images as well as alpha-numeric characters, graphical information and the like. it is often desirable during copying to change the size of an image by enlargement of reduction within a range of one order of magnitude and sometimes more the means currently known for effecting such changes are not amenable to a wide range of scale variations and seldom permit precise selection of scale factors without tedious and complex adjustments. the known systems also tend to be excessively cumbersome and costly. an image may be enlarged or reduced by an optical system but normally a system capable of reduction is not readily suitable for enlargement and vice versa. in addition, in either type of optical system, enlargements or reductions are usually available only in a limited range due to optical considerations and when a relatively broad scale factor change is required, the optical systems become inordinately complex. an important desirable feature for such systems is that the image recording device should be a conventional and reliable system that need not be adjusted or manipulated to give different dot sizes for different image magnification or reduction ratios. while a reduction in dot size could give higher resolution on a reduced image, the complexity and greater degree of precision necessarily required with such a system would not be desirable for the great majority of applications. known recording techniques for producing hard copy, such as dot matrix printers, are highly reliable and operate at high rates of speed, but essentially do not permit introduction of a change in dot size. this is true whether one considers an ink jet printer, electrostatic printer, impact printer or thermal printer. one of these devices can be chosen for a given image resolution in the final copy, but what is most important in many instances is to be able immediately to obtain a reproduced image of desired size that has reasonable fidelity to the original which itself
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims   1. a system for reproducing an original image, comprising means (10) for scanning the original image and generating signals representative of intensity variations of individual pels in a pel array of rows and columns1 and reproducing means (39) under the control of said signals for generating dot patterns in rows and columns on a reproduced image medium, characterised by means (26, 28) responsive to signals generated by the scanning means and to a reproduced image scale selector (27) for modifying the numbers of rows and columns of dot patterns venerated for the reproduced image from the numbers of rows and columns of pels in the original image, whereby to reproduce the original image in a reproduced image of the selected scale.   2. a system according to claim 1, in which the modifying means is effective, for image enlargement, to repeat rows and columns of dots at selected positions.   3. a system according to claim 1 or 2, in which the modifying means is effective, for image reduction, to delete rows and columns of dots at selected positions.   4. a system according to claim 2 or 3, in which the reproduced image scale is selectible by incremental amounts.   5. a system according to claim 4, in which, for image enlargement, the rows and columns of dots selected for repetition are those closest to the individual fractional positions needed for the desired scale reproduction.     6. a system according to claim 4, in which,- for image reduction, the rows and columns of dots not=selected for deletion are those   closest to    the individual fractional positions   needed    for the desired scale repro   diction    7. a method of reproducing an original image, comprising generating signals representative of intensity variations of individual pels in a pel# array of rows and columns by scanning the original image and, under the control of said signals, generating dot patterns in rows and columns on a reproduced image medium, characterised by modifying, in response to selection of a reproduced image scale, the numbers of rows and columns of- dot patterns generat#ed for the reproduced image from the numbers of rows and columns of pels in the original image, whereby to reproduce the original image in a reproduced image of the selected scale.   8. an image size controller for an image generator of the kind which produc#es an image consisting of a plurality of individual picture elements, comprising means #to modify a sequence- of successive signals representing individual picture elements in an image to enlarge orreduce the sequence in accordance with a selected scale 9. a controller according to claim 8, in which the scale selected is #represented by a train of# coded digital pulses, synchronised with the signals of the sequence..     10. a controller according to claim 8 or 9, in which the modifying means selectively deletes signals representing picture elements.   11. a controller according to the claim 8, 9 or 10, in which the modifying means selectively duplicates signals representing picture elements.   12. a controller according to claim 9, or any claim appendant to claim 9, in which the coded pulse train comprises repeated series of pulses.   13. a controller according to claim 12, including memory means for storing picture element signals in discrete, addressable memory locations as a function of the coded pulse train.   14. a controller according to claim 13, comprising scale factor selection means for selectively generating an enlarge function or a reduction function and coupled to control means the generation of the coded pulse train, picture element clocking means, and addressing means responsive to the coded pulse train, the picture element clocking means, and the picture element signal sequence for entering picture element signals in successive addresses of the memory means.   15. a controller according to claim 14, in which, when the system operates to perform an enlarge function, the individual signals representing the picture elements are selectively repeated in successive positions in the memory means in response to the coded pulse train.     16. a controller according to claim 14 or 15, in which when the system operates to perform the reduction function, individual signals representing the picture elements are selectively deleted during entry of signals into the memory means in response# to the coded pulse train.   17. a controller according to claim 9, 12, 13, 14, 15 or 16, including a shift register coupled to receive pulses from a coded pulse train generator, which pulses are generated in response to a scale factor se-lector coupled to the generator.   18. a controller according to claim 17, in which the scale factor selector comprises means to select a voltage level, comparator means for determining the outcome of a comparison of the selected voltage   ievei    with respect to a reference voltage level, means to take the reciprocal of the selected voltage   level,-and    switch means responsive to the comparator for mutually exclusively coupling the selected voltage level or the reciprocal of the selected voltage level to the# pulse generator.   19. a controller according to claim 17,   in--which-the    pulse generator comprises first switch means, sample   andholameans    to store the voltage level at the output of the first switch means, subtractor means for subtracting a reference voltage from the voltage level in the sample and hold means, unity determining means for determining when the output of the subtractor means is# greater than one half of the reference voltage, summing  means for adding the output of the scale factor selector and the subtractor means, second switch means responsive to the unity determining means for mutually exclusively coupling the output of the subtractor means or the summing means to the first switch means,   the first switch means being responsive to the output of the second switch means for mutually exclusively coupling the output of the second switch means or the scale factor selector to the sample and hold means, and means to couple the output of the unity determining means to the shift register.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
