<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0005356
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19791114
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
H01R-13/40 <main>H01R-23/70</main> H01R-12/22 H01R-12/00 H01R-12/18 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
an electrical terminal and an edgecard connector incorporating the same.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
du pontus<sep>e.i. du pont de nemours and company<sep>e.i. du pont de nemours and company1007 market streetwilmington delaware 19898us<sep>e.i. du pont de nemours and company  <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
keim kenneth john<sep>keim, kenneth john<sep>keim, kenneth johnr. d. nr. 2, box 91lewisberry pennsylvania 17339us<sep>keim, kenneth john<sep>keim, kenneth johnr. d. nr. 2, box 91lewisberry pennsylvania 17339us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
an elongate electrical terminal 10 with a deformed  mounting portion 16 adapted to be press fitted into a circuit  board aperture in an edgecard connector.  the mounting  portion is a generally cylindrical body with symmetrically  opposed generally oval-shaped voids extending  lengthwise therein so as to have a substantially bow-tie  shaped cross-section with convex ends which plastically  deforms at its reduced centre region when pressed into  a circuit board aperture, so as to provide a high retention  force under torsional stress without solder bonding.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
"an electrical terminal and an edgecard connector incorporating the same" this invention relates to an electrical terminal, particularly for an edgecard connector for use in the electrical connector industry, for example in microcircuits technology involving multiple circuit board terminations. more particularly, this invention relates to elongate terminals which are press fit into circuit board apertures and which have spring arm contacts adapted for receiving and making electrical contact with circuit boards. in the use of terminals for microcircuit applications there is an ever-present need for structures which are inexpensive to manufacture, yet which possess inherently high degrees of reliability. in the manufacture of press-fit terminals for mounting in circuit board apertures, care must be exercised to insure that tolerances between the board apertures and the mounting portions of the terminals are within certain preset limits. the limits must be adequate to insure sufficient retention force, and yet avoid injury to metallization plating in the aperture. many structures e been proposed for achievement of this objective without substantial sacrifice in manufacturing costs and reliability of the terminations effected thereby. for example, u.s. 4,066,326, issued to lovendusky, discloses a circuit board contact with an expanded mounting portion which will maintain a desired retention force over a large circuit board aperture tolerance. circuit board terminals having similar deformed mounting portions are also described in u.s. 3,827,004 issued to vanden heuvel et al. and u.s. 3,634,819 issued to evans. these structures, although quite sufficient for their intended purposes, do not provide sufficient retention force without solder bonding when utilized in conjunction with wire wrap tail contacts wherein the terminal may be subjected to substantial torsional forces. additionally, some of the prior art structures (e.g., u.s. 3,634,819) designed for high force retention do not sufficiently insure accurate location of the central axis of the mounting portion within the circuit board aperture upon termination. press-fit terminals with spring arm contacts are often used in edgecard connectors. unfortunately, such connectors built to provide high normal forces have been asociated with undesirably high insertion forces, as most of them utilize cantilever spring arm systems. in order to provide satisfactory mating between the board and spring arms, a sufficient normal force must be created to assure firm electrical contact, but high board insertion forces must be avoided. the typical edgecard connector contains parallel opposing rows of terminals having spring arm contacts biased toward each other so as to define a convex contact engaging surface for a mating board. the spring arms function as cantilever beams, so that when a board is slideably inserted therebetween, the ends of the spring arms are forced later ally apart. thus, the higher the normal force provided, the greater the insertion force. various structures have been proposed for aching a reduced insertion force per a given normal force, but any do so only rnarginallt, and most involve the technique of preloading the opposing spring arm contacts as disclosed in u.s. 3,963,293 issued to mcree and u.s. 3,571,917 issued to ammon et al. viewed from
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:    1. an elongate electrical terminal for press fitting in a circuit board aperture, having a contact at each end and a deformable mounting portion therebetween, said mounting portion comprising a generally   c-llndrical    body having symmetrically opposed generally oval-shaped voids impressed therein, the major axes of said voids extending parallel to the longitudinal axis of said body, the body having a generally bow-tie shaped cross-section with convex surfaces at its ends and symmetrically opposed, dish-shaped impressions formed in its sides by said voids to define a reduced centre portion in said cross-section,  whereby said mounting portion upon press fitting into a round circuit board aperture in use has the convex surfaces at each end of the bow-tie shaped cross-section in intimate contact with the inside surface of said round aperture and said reduced centre portion plastically deformed.    2. a terminal as claimed in claim 1, which has a mass of solder adjacent said mounting portion, said mass of solder being positioned so as to flow, upon exposure to an external heat source, into interspaces between an inserted mounting portion and a corresponding circuit board aperture.    3. a terminal as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein one of said contacts is a spring arm in line with the axis of the terminal.    4. a terminal as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein  one of said contacts is a wire wrap tail, the other being a spring arm having a free end parallel to and offset from the axis of the wire wrap tail.    5. a terminal as claimed in claim 4, wherein said spring arm contact is bifurcated, said terminal having a first shoulder, a neck portion, and a second shoulder all positioned intermediate said spring arm contact and said mounting portion.    6. an edgecard connector which comprises:  (a) a plurality of elongate terminals each having a contact at both ends and a deformable mounting  portion therebetween, said mounting portions being a press fit into apertures in a supporting circuit board, one of said contacts of each terminal being a spring arm having a free end, the second of said contacts being a wire wrap tail,  (b) an insulative housing mated with said supporting circuit board, said housing having means to removably receive, edgewise, a mating circuit board, and being adapted to fit over the spring arm contacts of said plurality of terminals, the terminals being positioned in opposing rows in said apertures of the supporting circuit board, the housing having a wall therein substantially parallel to the axes of the wire wrap tails of inserted  terminals,  the wall being adapted to restrict the free ends of the spring arms to movement only along a plane parallel to the axes of said tails when a mating circuit board is inserted into the connector.    7. an edgecard connector as claimed in claim 6, wherein the said mounting portion of each terminal has a generally cylindrical body with symmetrically opposed   generally    oval-shaped voids impressed therein,   tithe      major    axes of said voids extending parallel to the   lonctitudinal    axis of said body, the body having a generally bow-tie shaped cross-section with symmetrically opposed dish-shaped impressions formed therein by said voids to define a reduced centre portion in said cross-section.     8. an edgecard connector as claimed in claim 7, wherein the reduced portion of said cross-section of said mounting portion is adapted to be plastically deformed upon the press fitting of said mounting portion into a circuit board aperture.    9. an edgecard connector as claimed in any of claims 6 to 8, including mechanical fastener means for mating said insulative housing with said supporting circuit board.    10. an edgecard connector as claimed in any of   claims 6 to 9, wherein the spring arm contact of each said terminal is bifurcated, the terminal having a first shoulder, a neck, and a second shoulder all positioned intermediate said spring arm contact and said mounting portion.    11. an edgecard connector as claimed in any of claims 6 to 10, wherein the free end of the spring arm of each terminal is parallel to and offset from the axis of said wire wrap tail.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
