<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0012137
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800625
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
G01R-31/08 G01R-31/02 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
electrical conductor and short circuit locator.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
brinegar paul e<sep>brinegar, paul e.<sep>brinegar, paul e.334 skyline drive lot no 1 ottumwah iowa us <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
brinegar paul e<sep>brinegar, paul e.<sep>brinegar, paul e.334 skyline drive lot no 1ottumwah iowaus<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
an apparatus for locating electrical conductors and  short circuits in ac and dc circuits is disclosed herein.   the apparatus has leads for connecting across open cir­ cuit breaker or fuse box terminals.  current limiting resistors  and transistors limit the current, if ac or converted to  pulsated dc, to a value that is sufficiently high to be read  on a clamp-on ammeter at any point in the circuit being  tested.  a first pulse generator intermittently interrupts the  current through the current limiting means to create a  momentary pulse of approximately 1/2 to 1 second duration  at a frequency of approximately 3 to 5 seconds.  a second  pulse generator interrupts the current limiting means at  approximately 225 cycles per second to provide a pulsating  component in the momentary pulse for dc circuits.  a  clamp-on ammeter will indicate this pulse at all points  in the circuit except at the short circuit, wether in a dc or  ac circuit.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
electrical conductor and stiort circuit locator background of the invention 1. field of the invention this invention relates to an apparatus for locating conductors and short circuits in ac and dc circuits. 2. description of the prior art ac and dc circuits are often wired in bundles containing conductors for other circuits. some of the conductors may be in dc circuits and others in ac circuits. should it be desired to trace a conductor or to locate a short circuit, various devices have been devised to locate a particular conductor within the bundle. one such device, shown in u.s. patent 3,623,142 uses cam operated switches driven by an electrical motor to provide a pulsating current that is detected by a clamp-on ammeter. another device, shown in u.s. patent 3,621,384 is for use only with dc circuits. a current transducer converts the direct current into periodical current. a complex searching head induces pulses in response to the periodical current and changes the output to sound or visible signals. suediary of the invention it is a general object of this invention to provide an improved apparatus for locating short circuits and tracing electrical conductors. it is a further object of this invention to provide an improved apparatus for locating short circuits and tracing electrical conductors that utilizes a conventional clamp-on ammeter as the searching head and does not require mechanical switching elements. it is a further object of this invention to provide an improved apparatus for locating short circuits and tracing electrical conductors either in ac circuits, dc circuits, or dc circuits in a common bundle with ac circuits, without requiring any knowledge by the. operator of the particular type of circuit being tested. in accordance with these objects an apparatus is provided that is placed across the terminal of the circuit breaker or fuse terminals to pulsate the current in the circuit being tested. a first pulse generator provides a momentary pulse of 1/2 to 1 second duration every# 3 to 5 secds. this pulse controls a switching and current limiting circuit that allows the current in the circuit being tested to flow whenever the pulse is generated. the current is limited, but remains at a fairly high value, .25 to 5 amps. if the circuit is ac, a conventional clamp-on ammeter placed around the wires in the circuit will display the momentary pulse, enabling the conductor to be traced. the momentary pulses will not be visible at and past the short circuit. a second pulse generator or chopper is connected in series with the first pulse generator. it operates at a much higher frequency, 100 to 500 hz (cycles per second), to pulsate the momentary pulse. since a clamp-on ammeter will indicate only alternating or pulsating currents, this gives the momentary pulse a pulsating component for indication in dc circuits. the first pulse generator can be eliminated for dc circuits that have no ac circuits in a common bundle. a clamp-on ammeter, which is not effected by dc in other
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims   1. an apparatus for locating electrical conductors and short circuits in ac circuits comprising:  first and second test leads for connecting across open circuit breaker means in an ac circuit to be tested,  current limiting means between the first and second test leads for limiting the current in the circuit being tested to a pre-determined value; the pre-determined value being sufficiently high such that the current is discernable by a clamp-on ammeter; and  first pulse generating means, cooperating with the first current limiting means, for intermittently interrupting the current in the circuit being tested;  the pulse generating means providing an on-duration sufficient for a clamp-on ammeter to indicate a momentary current pulse, with the off-duration substantially greater than the on-duration, whereby periodic pulses are observable by the clamp-on ammeter at all points along the circuit except at the short circuit.   2. the apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the pulse generating means provides a pulse of duration substantially in the range from 1/2 to 1 second occurring substantially in the range from 3 to 5 seconds.   3. an apparatus for locating electrical conductors and short circuits comprising:  first and second test leads for connecting across open circuit breaker means in a circuit to be tested,  current limiting means for limiting the current in the circuit being tested to a predetermined value to prevent excessive short circuit current in the circuit being tested; the predetermined value being sufficiently high such that pulsated and alternated currents are discernable at conducting points in the circuit by a clampon ammeter,    first pulse generating means, cooperating with the current limiting means, for intermittently interrupting the current in the circuit being tested; the first pulse generating means providing an on-duration sufficient for a clamp-on ammeter in an ac circuit to indicate a momentary pulse, with the off-duration substantially greater than the on-duration;  and  second pulse generating means, cooperating with the current limiting means and connected in series with the first pulse generating means, for interrupting the momentary pulse created by the first pulse generating means to provide a pulsating component in the momentary pulse so that a current reading is visible on a clamp-on ammeter in a dc circuit at all points along the circuit except at the short circuit.   4. the apparatus according to claim 3 wherein the first pulse generating means provides a pulse of duration substantially in the range from 1/2 to 1 second occurring at a frequency substantially in the range from three to five seconds.   5. the apparatus according to claim 4 wherein the current limiting means limits the current to an amplitude substantially in the range from .25 amps to 5 amps.   6. the apparatus according to claim 5 wherein the second pulse generating means provides pulses of frequency substantially in the range from 100 to 500 cycles per second.   7. the apparatus according to claim 6 wherein the pulses generated by the second pulse generating means have a duty cycle of approximately 20 to 30 percent on-duration.   8. an apparatus for locating electrical conductors and short circuits, comprising:  power supply means for providing a dc voltage,  first pulse generating means connected to the power supply means for generating a momentary pulse of  substantially 1/2 to 1 second duration substantially every 3 to 5 seconds,  second pulse generating means connected in series with the first pulse generating means for pulsating the momentary pulse at a frequency in the range from 100 to 500 cycles per second,  first and second test leads for connecting across open circuit breaker means in a circuit to be tested,  current limiting means for limiting the current in the circuit being tested to a pulsating and alternating value substantially in the range from .25 to 5.0 amps,  switch means connected with the current limiting means for switching on and off the current flow;   and  optical isolator means, including a light emitting diode and a photosensitive transistor, for actuating the switch means responsive to the pulsating output from the second pulse generator means, thereby causing an intermittent current pulse in the circuit being tested for detection by a clamp-on ammeter.   9. the apparatus according to claim 8 wherein the pulses generated by the second pulse generator have a duty cycle of 20 to 30 percent on duration to reduce the amount of time in which current is flowing through the circuit being tested.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
