<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0011991
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800611
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
A01M-7/00 G08C-17/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
improvements in or relating to remote control devices.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
allman & co ltdgb<sep>e. allman & company limited<sep>e. allman &amp; company limitedbirdham road, chichestersussex po20 7btgb<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
mcfarlane phillip jamesgb<sep>mcfarlane, phillip james<sep>mcfarlane, phillip jamesthe studio, rosary gate piggery hall lanewest wittering, west sussexgb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a remote control device for transmitting signals to or  from an enclosure, for example from a cab of an agricultural  vehicle to equipment outside the cab.  the device includes  transmitting (2,11) and receiving elements (3,15) mounted on  respective opposite sides of a side wall (23) of the cab.  when  operated, the transmitting element causes a change in a  magnetic, electric or electromagnetic field or in ultrasonic  radiation applied via the side wall to the receiving element.   the receiving element generates an electric signal representative  of the change.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
this invention relates to remote control devices. in both industry and agriculture it is often necessary to transmit signals from one environment to another. examples are the transmission of signals from a control room to an operating room and from a vehicle cab to equipment outside the cab. it is usual to transmit such signals via electric cables, pneumatic or hydraulic hoses, or mechanical linkages which extend through a wall separating one environment from the other. sealing is provided between the wall and the cable, hose or linkage, where necessary. in some cases it is necessary to provide only a temporary connection of the above kind between a control device on one side of the wall and equipment on the other side. an example occurs in agriculture, where spraying equipment mounted on a trailer must be controlled by an operator in a cab which is sealed to keep out noise and dirt and may be pressurised to ensure that chemicals do not enter the cab. robust connectors are required because of the harsh environment. if such connectors have many contacts they tend to be large and this, together with the need for a heavy cable, makes it difficult to thread the cable through the seal. providing a window which can be opened to allow the cable to pass through destroys the advantage of the sealed cab. where panels are provided for threading cables into the cab, these are not often used because of the time and difficulty involved. ar3ording to the present invention a remote control device comprises an enclosure, and transmitting and receiving elements which are mounted on respective opposite sides of a side wall of the enclosure, the transmitting element being adapted, when operate , to cause a change in a magnetic, electric or electromagnetic field or in ultrasonic radiation applied via the side wall to the receiving element, and the receiving element being adapted to generate an electrical signal representative of the said change in magnetic, electric or electromagnetic field or ultrasonic radiation. the invention will now be described, by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which: figures 1 and 2 show schematically parts of first and second remote control devices according to the invention; and figure 3 shows schematically a third remote control device according to the invention. the device shown in figure 1 of the drawings is a control device for use by an operator in switching remote equipment on and off. in the device of figure 1 a sheet 1 of glass forms part of a side wall separating the environment in which the equipment i3 located from an operator's environment. on one side of the sheet 1 is a box containing a receiving element in the form of a magnetically operable switch 4, which is a reed switch or a hall effect semiconductor. electrical connections are made between the switch 4 and the equipil.ent, which is not shown in figure 1. a box 2 on the other side of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 1. a remote control device comprising an enclosure,   and transmitting and receiving elements which are mounted on respective opposite sides of a side wall of the enclosure, the transmitting element being adapted, when operated, to cause a change in a magnetic, electric or electromagnetic field or in ultrasonic radiation applied via the side wall to the receiving element, and the receiving element being adapted to generate an electrical signal representative of the said change in magnetic, electric or electromagnetic field or ultrasonic radiation.    2. a device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the transmitting and receiving elements are each releasably mounted on the side wall of the enclosure.    3. a device as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein the transmitting element is coupled to an output of a time division multiplex transmitting system, whereby a series of channels of information is transmitted via a single transmitting element.    4. a device as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein a first transmitting element is mounted on one side of the side wall and a second transmitting element is mounted on the other side of the side wall, each transmitting element having an associatcd receiving   eel'anent    on the side of the wall opposite thereto.      b.    a device as claimed in claim 4, wherein the first transmitting element is adapted, when operated, to cause a change  in a magnetic or electromagnetic field applied via the side wall to the associated receiving element, the first transmitting element is coupled to an output of a circuit for transmitting electrical power to the associated first receiving element, and the second transmitting element is coupled to an output of a circuit for transmitting electrical signals to the associated second receiving element.    6. a device as claimed in any one of claims   l    to 4, wherein the or each transmitting element comprises a movable permanent magnet, the or each receiving element comprises a magnetically operable switch, and operation of the or each transmitting element is effected by moving the element relative to the associated receiving agent.    7. a device as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the or each transmitting element comprises an electromagnet, and operation of the or each transmitting element is effected by varying the current supplied to the electromagnet, thereby to vary the magnetic field applied to the associated receiving element.     8. a device as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the or each transmitting and receiving element comprises a capacitor plate, and operation of the or each transmitting element is effected by varying the charge appliedto the or each   transmi;ting    element.    9. a device as claimed in any one of claims   l    to 4,  wherein the or each transmitting and receiving element comprises an ultrasonic transducer.    10. a device as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the or each transmitting element comprises a transmitter of visible, infrared or radio frequency electromagnetic radiation.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
