<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0012565
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800625
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B60R-21/02 A47C-7/18 A63G-9/00 A47C-3/02 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
seats for swings.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
sutcliffe eng holdingsgb<sep>sutcliffe engineering holdings limited<sep>sutcliffe engineering holdings limitedossett, west yorkshire, wf5 9djgb <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
yates victor horacegb<sep>yates, victor horace<sep>yates, victor horacevalley house, cornmill bottomshelley, nr. huddersfieldgb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a seat for a swing, the seat being of composite structure  comprising a first member (1′), which is sufficiently rigid to  bear the weight of a user, and a second member (2) of a com­ pressible polymeric material, the first member being of sub­ stantially laminar form and the second member covering at  least part of the peripheral edge of the first member, in which  the first member (1′) is made of a lightweight metal alloy and  has a number of integrally-formed ribs (106′) depending from  its underside.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
this invention relates to an improvement over the swing seats described in the complete specification of our british patent application no. 9361/75 (serial no. 1,535,728) and in the corresponding patents-and applications in other countries. traditionally, swing seats were made of wood but it has been recognised for many years that wooden seats can inflict severe injury and a number of alternative constructions have been proposed. one alternative form of construction is to make the swing seat of rubber with a metal core and seats of this kind were proposed some thirty to forty years ago. the swing seats described in our earlier application are of this general type but the rubber at the periphery of the seat is moulded into a particular configuration to give enhanced safety by virtue of the impact force/deflection/energy absorption characteristic provided by the particular configuration. swings seats in accordance with the description given in our earlier application have proved very successful in safety tests but it would naturally be desirable to have an even safer swing seat if that were possible. on the other hand, safety is not the only consideration as one must also take into account cost of manufacture, strength, durability and resistance to vandalism. the problem therefore exists to improve upon the safety of our earlier swing seats whilst retaining their strength, durability and resistance to vandalism and at the same time keeping down manufacturing costs. the present invention provides a seat for a swing, the seat being of composite structure comprising a first member, which is sufficiently rigid to bear the weight of a user, and a second member of a compressible polymeric material, the first member being of substantially laminar form and the second member covering at least part of the peripheral edge of the first member, characterised in that the first member is made of a lightweight metal alloy and has a number of integrally-formed ribs depending from its underside. the first member can be oblong with the ribs running parallel to the longitudinal axis of the oblong. there can be five or more, preferably, seven ribs provided. the first member can be provided with a peripheral flange. the first member can be rectangular and a respective rib can define the flange on each long side of the rectangle. a respective angle member can be provided at each short side of the rectangle to define the flange on each short side. the angle members can be riveted to the remainder of the first member. the substantially laminar part and integrally-formed ribs can comprise an extrusion of aluminium alloy. each rib can be tapered and be thinnest at its distal part. the second member can be as described or claimed in our earlier application. by way of example only, an illustrative embodiment of the invention will now be described with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which: figure 1 shows a section through an aluminium alloy extrusion. figure 2 shows an underneath scrap viewoof the extrusion, figures 3 and 4
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:    1. a seat for a swing, the seat being of composite structure comprising a first member (1'), which is sufficiently rigid to bear the weight of a user, and a second member (2) of a compressible polymeric material, the first member being of substantially laminar form and the second member covering at least part of the peripheral edge of the first member1 characterised in that the first member is made of a lightweight metal alloy and has a number of integrally-formed ribs (106') depending from its underside.    2. a seat as claimed in claim 1, further characterised in that the first member (1') is oblong with the ribs (106') running parallel to the longitudinal axis of the oblong.    3. a seat as claimed in claim 1 or 2, further characterised in that there are five or more ribs (106').    4. a seat as claimed in claim 3, further characterised in that the number of ribs (106') is seven.    5. a seat as claimed in any preceding claim, further characterised in that the first member (1') is provided with a peripheral flange (102' 108', 109').    6. a seat as claimed in any preceding claim, further characterised in that the first member (1') is rectangular and a respective rib (108' 109') defines the flange on each long side of the rectangle.    7. a seat as claimed in claim 6, further characterised in that respective angle member (102') is provided at each short side of the rectangle to define the flange on each short side.    8. a seat as claimed in claim 7, further characterised in that the angle members (102') are riveted to the remainder of the first member.      9. a seat as claimed in any preceding claim.   further characterised in that the substantially laminar part (104') of the first member (1') and the integrallyformed ribs (106') comprise an extrusion of aluminium alloy.    10. a seat as claimed in any preceding claim, further characterised in that each rib (106') is tapered and is thinnest at its distal part.    11. a seat as claimed in any preceding claim.   wherein the compressible polymeric material (2) has substantial depth and thickness surrounding the periphery of the core member, and a multiplicity of apertures (2c) are arranged side-by-side in the compressible polymeric material about the periphery of the core member, the compressible polymeric material and apertures together defining (i) a first wall adjacent to the edge of the core member and transverse to the plane of the core member. (ii) a second wall generally parallel to the first wall forming a pliant peripheral skin at the periphery of the said seat, and (iii) relatively thin struts acting substantially as euler buckling struts connecting the first and second walls, the struts being formed by the material remaining between adjacent apertures.  and the walls and struts providing a deflection characteristic such that on impact of the periphery of the seat with an object there is an initial deformation with little absorption of energy in which the shape of the impacted object is taken up by the pliant peripheral skin defined by said second wall and a subsequent deformation in which substantially all of the impact energy is absorbed in buckling struts.    12. a swing seat as claimed in claim 1, further characterised in that the apertures   (2d,    2e, 2f) are blind apertures and extend along, and adjacent to, the periphery of the core member (1'), the axes of the apertures being substantially perpendicular to the plane of the core member.      13. a swing seat as claimed in claim 12, further characterised in that the core member (1') and the swing seat are generally of rectangular configuration, in that the apertures (2d, 2e, 2f) extend in rows along the side of the seat, and in that the long sides of the rectangle each include a respective further row of blind apertures (2e) parallel to the corresponding firstmentioned row of aperture (2d).    14. a swing seat as claimed in claim 13, further characterised in that each of the apertures (2d, 2e, 2f) is of circular cross-section, the apertures (2d, 2e) extending along the long sides of the rectangle have the same diameter, the apertures (2f) extending along the short sides of the rectangle have the same diameter, and the apertures (2f) extending along the short sides have a greater diameter than the apertures (2d, 2e) extending along the long sides.    15. a swing seat as claimed in claim 13 or 14, further characterised in that in each long side of the rectangle the said first-mentioned row of apertures (2d) is provided in a part (2g) of the compressible polymeric material (2) of first predetermined depth, the said further row of blind apertures is provided in a part (2h) of second predetermined depth, and the first predetermined depth is substantially greater than the second predetermined depth.    16. a swing seat as claimed in claim 14 or 15, further characterised in that the apertures (2d, 2e, 2f) in any row are equispaced, the distance between the centres of each pair of adjacent apertures in any row is not greater than 1.33 times the diameter of the apertures in that row, and the distance between the centre of each aperture in any given row, or any given outermost row  where a further row of blind apertures is provided, and the adjacent edge of the swing seat is not greater than 0.75 times the diameter of the apertures in that row.     17. a swing seat as claimed in any preceding claim1 further characterised in that the compressible polymeric material (2) has a hardness lying within the range of from 40 to 50 international rubber hardness degrees and is compression-moulded to the core member   (1').       18. a swing seat as claimed in any of claims 11 to 17, further characterised in that the core member (1') has a peripheral flange   (lox')    contiguous with the first wall means.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
