<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0013111
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800709
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
C07D-498/10 C07D-498/00 <main>C07D-498/10</main> A01N-43/80 C07C-135/00 C07D-261/00 C07D-261/08 A01N-43/72 A01N-43/90 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
3'-(substituted phenyl)-spiro(isobenzofuran-1(3h),5'(4'h)-isoxazol)-3-ones, process for their preparation, their use as herbicides and plant growth regulants and their application to the preparation of isoxazole derivatives.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
monsanto cous <sep>monsanto company<sep>monsanto company 800 north lindbergh boulevard st. louis missouri 63167us<sep>monsanto company<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
howe robert kenneth<sep>liu kou chang<sep>howe, robert kenneth<sep>liu, kou chang<sep>howe, robert kenneth12176 dunsinane courtbridgeton, missouri 63044us<sep>liu, kou chang84-06 98th streetwoodhaven, new york new york 11421us<sep>howe, robert kenneth<sep>liu, kou chang<sep>howe, robert kenneth12176 dunsinane courtbridgeton, missouri 63044us<sep>liu, kou chang84-06 98th streetwoodhaven, new york new york 11421us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
3′-(substituted phenyl)-spiro (isobenzofuran-1(3h,  5′(4′h)-isoxazole -3-ones having the formula    wherein x and y are independently selected from the group  consisting of hydrogen, halogen, lower alkyl, lower alkoxy,  halo-lower-alkyl, phenoxy, phenyl and cyano, their method of  preparation as well as to their use as herbicides and plant  growth regulants, especially for the regulation of soybeans.  the use of the novel compounds as intermediates in the  preparation of isoxazol -5-yl benzoates having the formula    wherein r is hydrogen or r′ch₂- and r′ is hydrogen or alkyl  having up to four carbon atoms, inclusive, which are effective  as herbicides and plant growth regulants.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
3' - (substftuted phenyl) -spiro [ isobenzofuran- 1(3h) ,5' (4'h)-isoxazol]-3-ones k7d their use as herbicides and plant growth regulants this invention relates to compounds useful as herbicides and plant growth regulants. the compounds may be represented by the formula emi1.1 wherein x and y are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, halogen, lower alkyl, lower alkoxy, halolower-alkyl, phenoxy, phenyl and cyano. the terms "lower alkyl" and "lower alkoxy" as used herein are understood to include those alkyl and alkoxy groups having up to five carbon atoms, inclusive. both straight as well as branched chain alkyl groups are contemplated. the term ',halo-lower-alkyl" as used herein is understood to mean those lower alkyl groups in which at least one, and perhaps all, of the hydrogen atoms have been replaced by halogen atoms. it is to be clearly understood that trifluoromethyl is contemplated as being a halo-lower-alkyl moiety. the term "halogen" as used herein includes chlorine, bromine, fluorine and iodine. in accordance with one of the novel aspects of the present invention, the compounds of the foregoing formula may be prepared by the reaction of the appropriate nitrile oxide with 3-methylenephthalide. the invention additionally relates to the use of the novel spiro compounds of formula i as intermediates in the preparation of certain isoxazol-5-yl benzoates which are effective as herbicides and plant growth regulants. the reaction readily proceeds at room temperature and atmospheric pressure although slightly elevated temperatures and pressures may be utilized to increase the rate of reaction. although the nitrile oxide may be generated separately and then reacted with 3-methylenephthalide, it has been found to be convenient to generate the nitrile oxide in situ by reacting an appropriate chlorooxime with 3-methylenephthalide under basic conditions as follows: emi2.1 this reaction proceeds at room temperature and atmospheric pressure although slightly elevated temperatures andpressures may be utilized. normally, an equimolar ratio of reactants is utilized. when the nitrile oxide is relatively unstable, a large excess of chlorooxime may be utilized. under most conditions, a slight excess is preferred. the molar ratio to be utilized with any given reaction is within the skill of the art. as noted, the reaction proceeds under basic conditions. bases such as tertiary amines are preferred. especially preferred is the use of a stoichiometric amount of triethylamine. any inert solvent in which the reactants are readily soluble may be utilized. these include ether, dimethylformamide, tetrahydrofuran, chloroform, carbon tetrachloride, methylene chloride, dioxane and the like. chlorooximes are known in the art and are readily prepared by reaction of hydroxylamine with the appropriate aryl aldehyde in aqueous alcohol, followed by chlorination of the resultant oxime in accordance with the following scheme: emi3.1 aryl aldehydes may be prepared by the procedure of jolad and rajagopal, qrg. syn. coll., vol. v, page 139 (1973). the procedure of s. v. vinogradova et al, j. appl. chem.(vssr) 44, 1405 (1971) may be used to prepare 3-methylenephthalide. n order to illustrate the above procedure, the following ex em-ples are presented. these examples are merely illustrative
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1. a compound having the formula emi31.1         wherein x and y are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, halogen, lower alkyl, lower alkoxy, halo-lower-alkyl, phenoxy, phenyl and cyano.      a    a compound according to claim 1 wherein x is hydrogen and y is halogen, lower alkyl, lower alkoxy, halolower-alkyl, phenoxy, phenyl and cyano.    3. a compound according to claim 1 wherein said halo-lower-alkyl is trifluoromethyl.    4. a compound according to claim 1 wherein x is hydrogen and y is chloro in the para position.    5. a compound according to claim 1 wherein x is hydrogen and y is fluoro in the para position.    6. a compound according to claim 1 wherein x is hydrogen and y is phenoxy in the meta position.    7. a compound according to claim 3 wherein x is hydrogen and y is trifluoromethyl in the meta position.      8. a method of regulating the growth of desirable leguminous plants which comprises applying to the plant locus a plant growth regulating effective amount of a compound having the formula emi32.1       wherein x and y are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, halogen, lower alkyl, lower alkoxy, halo-lower-alkyl, phenoxy, phenyl and cyano.    9. a method according to claim 8 wherein x is hydrogen and y is halogen, lower alkyl, lower alkoxy, halolower-alkyl, phenoxy, phenyl and cyano.    10. a method according to claim 8 wherein said halo-lower-alkyl is trifluoromethyl.    11. a method according to claim 1 wherein x is hydrogen and y is chloro in the para position.    12. a method according to claim 1 wherein x is hydrogen and y is fluoro in the para position.    13. a method according to claim 1 wherein x is hydrogen and y is phenoxy in the meta position.    14. a method according to claim 10 wherein x is hydrogen and y is trifluoromethyl in the meta position.      15. a method for preventing the growth of undesir able plants which comprises applying to the plant locus a herbicidally effective amount of a compound having the formula emi33.1       wherein x and y are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, halogen, lower alkyl, lower alkoxy, halo-lower-alkyl, phenoxy, phenyl and cyano.    16. a method according to claim 15 wherein x is hydrogen and y is halogen, lower alkyl, lower alkoxy, halolower-alkyl, phenoxy, phenyl and cyano.    17. a method according to claim 15 wherein said halo-lower-alkyl is trifluoromethyl.    18. a method according to claim 15 wherein x is hydrogen and y is chloro in the para position.    19. a method according to claim 15 wherein x is hydrogen and y is fluoro in the para position.    20. a method according to claim 15 wherein x is hydrogen and y is phenoxy in the meta position.    21. a method according to claim 17 wherein x is hydrogen and y is trifluoromethyl in the meta position.      22. an agricultural chemical composition which comprises from about 5 to about 95 parts by weight of a compound having the formula emi34.1       wherein x and y are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, halogen, lower alkyl, lower alkoxy, halo-lower-alkyl, phenoxy, phenyl and cyano; the remaining parts being comprised of one or more suitable adjuvants, carriers and/or diluents.    23. a composition according to claim 22 wherein x is hydrogen and y is halogen, lower alkyl, lower alkoxy, halo-lower-alkyl, phenoxy, phenyl and cyano.    24. a composition according to claim 22 wherein said halo-lower-alkyl is trifluoromethyl.    25. a composition according to claim 22 wherein x is hydrogen and y is chloro in the para position.    26. a composition according to claim 22 wherein x is hydrogen and y is fluoro in the para position.    27. a composition according to claim 22 wherein x is hydrogen and y is phenoxy in the meta position.    28. a composition according to claim 24 wherein x is hydrogen and y is trifluoromethyl in the meta position.      29. a process for preparing compounds having the formula emi35.1       wherein x and y are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, halogen, lower alkyl, lower alkoxy, halo-lower-alkyl, phenoxy, phenyl and cyano which comprises reacting a nitrile oxide having the formula emi35.2       with 3-methylenephthalide in an inert solvent.    30. a process according to claim 29 wherein said nitrile oxide is prepared in   qitu    by adding a chlorooxime having the formula emi35.3       and a base to the 3-methylenephthalide solution.    31. a process according to claim 29 wherein said base is a tertiary amine.    32. a process according to claim 31 wherein said amine is triethylamine.      33. a process for preparing 3-aryl-isoxazol-5-ylbenzoic acid and esters thereof having the formula emi36.1       wherein r is hydrogen or r'ch2- and r' is hydrogen or alkyl having up to four carbon atoms, inclusive which comprises reacting a spiro compound having the formula emi36.2       with roh under acidic conditions at a temperature ranging from room temperature to the reflux temperature of the roh compound.     34. a process according to claim 33 wherein said temperature is the reflux temperature of the roh compound.    35. a process according to claim 33 wherein r is r'ch2-.    36. a process according to claim 33 wherein said aryl is emi36.3       wherein x and y are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, halogen, lower alkyl, lower alkoxy, halo-lower-alkyl, phenoxy and phenyl.    37. a process according to claim 33 wherein y is trifluoromethyl.      38. a process according to claim 33 which comprises reacting a spiro compound of the formula emi37.1       with r'ch2oh in the presence of a catalytic amount of sulfuric acid.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
