<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0007327
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800206
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
A22B-5/00 A22B-5/04 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
method and apparatus for collection of blood from animals.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
protean holdings limitedau<sep>protean (holdings) limited<sep>protean (holdings) limited147 barkly avenuerichmond victoriaau<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
ebsworth edmund bruceau<sep>ebsworth, edmund bruce<sep>ebsworth, edmund bruce10 lindsay streetmckinnon victoriaau<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a method of collecting blood from an animal in which a  stunned animal is suspended from a conveyor while a portion  of hide is stripped to expose an area adjacent a major blood  vessel.  a sterilized piercing instrument is inserted into said  blood vessel.  the blood is conducted to a container which is  supported on a separate conveyor system running parallel to  the conveyor.  the instrument comprises an elongate flat and  pointed blade (11) provided with two spaced coplanar limb  portions (11b) and outwardly bowed retaining rods (18,20).   the blade is attached to a body (14) holding a handle (26)  which defines a passageway (30) to the end opening (31) of  which a conduit may be connected.  a passageway (30a)  opens laterally into passageway (30) for dripping anticoagu­ lant additive.  a sterilizing unit is also disclosed comprising a  hollowbody to receive the piercing instrument in which it is  flushed with hot and cold water.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
this invention relates to an improved method and apparatus for collection of blood from animals. although it has been appreciated that animal blood has a wide use, particularly as a source of protein, it has not so far been possible to remove the blood from the animal, and to subsequently handle it, in such a manner that it would meet the various standards laid down by health authorities for the handling of constituents for foodstuffs. it is therefore the object of this invention to provide a method and an instrument which will enable the blood to be collected from a slaughtered animal in a sterile condition. with this object in view there is provided a a method of collecting blood from an animal comprising suspending a stunned animal, stripping a portion of the hide of the animal to expose an area adjacent a major artery or vein of the animal, inserting a sterilized self piercing hollow instrument through the exposed area into the vein or artery and conducting the blood in a sterile manner from the instrument to a container in which the blood is thereby collected. the instrument may remain in the animal as it moves with a conveyor until bleeding is completed which in a normal size cow or bullock is approximately three minutes. it will be appreciated that as the animal is initially in a stunned condition the animal's heart will pump the blood from the animal's body through the instrument and into the container. upon removal of the instrument it is preferably sterilized and subsequently returned down the conveyor line for use on a subsequent animal. the method may further include inspecting the condition of the carcass of the animal following completion of blood collection and selectively directing the blood collected in the container to one of a plurality of further storages in dependence on said inspection. the invention also provides an instrument for taking blood from an animal comprising a body defining a passageway therethrough and a pair of openings from the passageway to one of which a conduit may be connected, and piercing element supported in or in adcance of the other of said openings. the instrument may comprise a hollow tube having an opening intermediate the ends of the tube to which a conduit may be connected, and a piercing element supported in the tube for selective axial movement therein between an extended position projecting from one end of the tube to a retracted position in the tube substantially between the branch and the other end of the tube, the piercing element may be carried on a rod which extends through the other end of the tube in a sealed relation and has an external handle to permit manually controlled movement of the piercing element between tbe extended and retracted positions. the instrument may alternatively comprise an elongate blade which projects from an end portion of the instrument, the said end portion having a lengthwise passageway therethrough and retaining means operable to oppose
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:   1. a method of collecting blood from an animal characterized by suspending a stunned animal, stripping a portion of the hide of the animal to expose an area adjacent a major artery or vein of the animal, inserting a sterilized self piercing   hollow    instrument through the exposed area into the vein or artery and conducting the blood in a sterile   manner    from the instrument to a container in   which    the blood is thereby collected.   2. a method according to claim 1 characterized in that the area exposed by stripping a portion of the hide of the animal is located between the forelegs of the animal, said instrument being then inserted into the jugular vein or corotid artery close to   the.heart.      3. a method according to claim 1 or 2 further characterized by removing the instrument from the animal once collection of the blood is   corapleted,    sterilizing the instrument and returning it down the conveyor line for use on a subsequent animal.   4. a method according to any preceding claims further characterized by inspecting the condition of the carcass of the animal following completion of blood collection and selectively directing the blood coilected in the container to one of a plurality of further storages in dependence upon said inspection.   5. a method according to any preceding claims characterized by dripping an anti-coagulant into the blood as it is collected.     6. a method according to any preceding claim   characteried    in that the stunned animal is suspended from and moved with a travelling conveyor and further characterized by moving the container with the animal to permit the collecting of the blood to continue as the animal travels with the conveyor.   7, a method according to claim 6 characterized by supporting the container on a separate conveyor system which runs substantially parallel to the conveyor line carrying the animal at least up to the point at which the instrument is removed from the animal, releasing blood from the container once collection is completed and then sterilizing the container prior to returning it to the commencement of the animal conveyor line.   8. an instrument for taking blood from an animal characterized by a body defining a passageway there   through    and a pair of openings from the passageway to one of which a conduit may be connected, and a piercing element supported in or in advance of the other of said openings.   9. an instrument according to claim 8 characterized in that the body is a tube, said one opening is disposed intermediate the ends of the tube and said other opening at one end of the tube and the piercing element is mounted in the tube for selective axial movement therein between an extended position projecting from said other opening to a retracted position in the tube substantially between said one opening and the other of the tube.     10. an instrument according to claim 9 characterized in that the piercing element is carried   9n    a rod which extends through said other end of the tube in a sealed relation and has an external handle to permit manually controlled movement of the piercing element between the extended and retracted positions.   11. an instrument according to claim 8 characterized in that the piercing element comprises an elongate blade which projects from an end portion of the instrument containing at least a portion of said passageway therethrough and further characterized by retaining means operable to oppose withdrawal of the blade once inserted into an animal whereby the said passageway, when brought into communication with a view or artery of an animal by virtue of said insertion, tends to be maintained so positioned for flow of blood from the animal through the passageway exteriorally of the animal.   12. an instrument according to claim 11 characterized in that the retaining means comprises a pair of outwardly bowed rods extending from a forward part of said end portion to locations towards the free end of the said blade, but to opposite sides thereof.   13. an instrument according to claim 11 or 12 characterized in that the blade comprises a pointed, flat, tip portion with generally coplanar side edge portions extending from the tip portion to the said end portion of the instrument, these being spaced one from the other to define a central opening through the blade which opening conmunicates with the said passageway.     14. an instrument   accordion!    to claim 11, 12 or 13, characterized in that said end portion has a forwardly tapered formation from which the blade projects.   15. an instrument according to any one of claims 11 to 14 characterized in that the rods diverge forwardly from the end portion to a maximum spacing and then converge to points where they are secured to the blade.   16. an instrument according to any of claims 11 to 15 characterized in that the said retaining means, alternatively or additionally, comprises a pair of retractable blade elements movable from positions with the said end portion to laterally projecting positions.   17. an instrument according to claim 16 or 17 characterized in that the blade elements are retained in transversely extending openings and biased inwardly so as normally not to project from the openings.    18, an instrument according to claim 16 or 17 characterized in that the blade elements are movable by a lever connected to a mechanism engaging inner ends of the blade elements, the lever being   movable-,to    cause the blades to be extended to their laterally projecting positions.   19. a sterilizing unit suitable for use with the instrument of any one of claims 11 to 18, characterized by a hollow body opened at one end to receive in sealed relation the end of the instrument   which    is inserted into the animal, clamp means to hold the instrument in sealed relation with the hollow body and means to selectively flush the instrument with cold, hot and cold water in sequence.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
