<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0017462
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19801015
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<main>B21F-15/06</main> B21F-27/00 B21F-27/12 B21F-15/00 B21F-15/06 F16B-7/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
method of forming a wire article.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
snell geoffrey arnold<sep>snell, geoffrey arnold<sep>snell, geoffrey arnold33 knowles avenuecrowthorne berkshire rg11 6dugb<sep>snell, geoffrey arnold <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
snell geoffrey arnold<sep>snell, geoffrey arnold<sep>snell, geoffrey arnold33 knowles avenuecrowthorne berkshire rg11 6dugb<sep>snell, geoffrey arnold <sep>snell, geoffrey arnold33 knowles avenuecrowthorne berkshire rg11 6dugb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
wire articles and a method of and kit of parts for forming  same, comprising lengths of wire (1) of predetermined size  and connector members (2 to 9) connecting or adapted to  connect the lengths of wire (1) together.  the connector  members (2 to 9) each have at least two socket portions each  adapted to receive an end portion of a cut length of wire.  the  wire (1) has a diameter of not more than 6. 0mm, preferably  1. 6mm to 3. 0mm and the socket portions of the connector  members (2 to 9) are adapted to receive the end portions of  the wire (1) with a clearance of from 0. 5 to 0. 254mm,  preferably 0. 10 to 0. 178mm.  the end portions of the wire (1)  are preferably adhesiveiy secured in the connector members  (2 to 9).  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
wire articles and method of and kit of parts for forming same. this invention relaes to wire articles and to a method of and a kit of parts for forming wire articles. many different wire articles are used in homes, gardens, offices, shops, etc., including record and cassette racks, dish racks, vegetable racks7 wine racks, bird cages, tool racks, wire trays, wire display stands, colthes driers anci airers, an the 1 | like. such wire articles are sold as manufactured products ana are generally formed by cutting, bending and welding or soldering metal wire to form a required article. the wire article so formed is then generally provided with a required surface finish, e.g., is dip- or otherwise coated with synthetic plastics material cr spray- or otherwise coated with metallic or other paint. such manufactured wire articles suffer from the disadvantage0 that they are not adaptable to individual requirements and are relatively expensive to buy. the present invention has as its object to provide a method of and a kit of parts for forming wire articles which will tenable articles to be formed according to individual requirements. the present invention provides a method of forming a wire article which comprises cutting wire stock into lengths of predetermined size, if necessary bending at least one of said cut lengths of wire, obtaining a plurality of connector members each comprising at least two socket portions each of which is adapted to receive an end portion of a cut length of wire, and connecting the cut lengths of wire together by means of the connector embers to form a required article. the present invention also providers a wire article comprising a plurality of cut lengths of wire of predetermined size and connector members connecting the cut lengths of wire together to form the article, the connector members each comprising at least two socket portions each of which receives an end portion of a cut length of wire. the present invention further provides a kit of parts for forming wire articles, the kit of parts comprising a supply of wire and a plurality of connector members each comprising at least two socket portions @ ach of which is adapted to receive an end portion of the wire. the supply of wire in the kit of parts ma- be a continuous length of wire, e.g, a coil or stain of wire, which can be cut into lengths of predetermined size or may be pre-cut into lengthe of predetermined size for forming a particular article or articles the kit of parts may include means for cutting and/or bending the wire e.g., may include a wire cutting tool or a pair of pliers. the kit of parts may include instructions for cutting, bending and connecting the cut lengths of wire to forrt a particular article or articles. the wire used in the method, the article and the kit of parts of the present invention is preferably metal wire which is circular in section and has a diameter
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
   claims:      1. a method of forming a wire article which   co,..prises    cutting wire stock into lengths of   predeterinined    size, obtaining a plurality of connector members each comprising at least two socket portions each of which is adapted to receive an end portion of a cut length of wire, and connecting the cut lengths of wire together by means of the connector    members    to form a required article.   2. a method according to claim 1, which comprises   adhesive    securing the end portions of the cut lengths of wire in the socket portions of the connector members when connecting the cut lengths of wire together.   3. a method according to claim 2, wherein the socket portions of said connector members are each adapted to receive an end portion of a said   cut-length    of wire with a clearance of from 0.05 tg 0.254mm.   4. a method according to claim 3, wherein said clearance is from o.io to 0.178mm.   5. a method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the wire stock is circular in section and has a diameter of not more than 6mm.   6. a method according to claim 5, wherein the wire stock has a diameter of   fro    1.6 mm. to   3.omm    7. a   method    according to any of the preceding claims which comprises bending at least one of said cut lengths of wire prior to connecting the cut lengths of wire together.     8. a method according to any of the preceding   clairs    wherein the wire stock has been provided with a surface finish.   9. a method according to claim 8, wherein the wire stock has been coated with a synthetic plastics material.   10. a method according to claim s,   wherein    the wire stock has been coated with a metallic paint or lacquer.   11. a method according to any one of the preceding   claims,    wherein said connector members are moulded from synthetic plastics material.   12. a method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein at least one said connector member comprises   to    socket portions which are axially aligned for connecting two cut lengths of wire   end-to-end    in axial alignment.   13. a   method    according to claim 12, wherein said at least one connector member is in the form of a hollow tube.   14. a method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein at least one said connector member comprises at least two socket portions the axes of which are angled with respect   to once    another.      15.    a method according to any one of the   preceding    claims, which comprises providing a base member having apertures therein adapted to receive end portions of the cut lengths of wire and inserting the   ond    portions of at least some of the cut lengths of wire in   sild      aynetrtures.      16. a method according to claim 15, which comprises   adheslvelv    securing the end portions of the cut lengths of wire in said   apertures    in said base member.        17.    a   wire    article c comprising a plurality of cut   lengths      ol    wire of   predeter-mined    size and connector members connecting the' cut lengths of wire together to form the article, the connector   members    each comprising at   least    two socket portions each of which receives an end portion of a cut length of wire.   18.   a    wire article according to claim i7,   wherein    the end portions of the cut lengths of wire are adhesively secured in the socket portions of the connector members.   19. a wire article according to claim 18, wherein the end portions of the cut lengths of wire are received in the socket portions of the connector   members    with a clearance of from 0.05 o 0.254mm.   20. a   wire    article according to claim 19,   wherein    said clearance is from 0.10 to 0.178mm.   21. a wire article according to any one of claims 17 to 20, wherein said cut lengths of wire are   circular    in section and   have    a diameter of not more than 6.0mm.       22. a wire article according to claim 21, wherein the cut    lengths of wire have a diameter of from 1.6mm to 3.0mm.   23. a wire article according to any one of claims 17 to 22,   comprising    a base   member    having apertures therein in   which    end   portions    of   at      least    some of said cut lengths of wire are received.      2t.    a kit of parts for forming wire articles, the kit of parts comprisin a supply of wire and a plurality of connector members each comprising at least two socket portions each of which is adapted   to    receive an end portion  of the wire.   25. a kit of parts according to claim 24,   hrei    said wire is cut into lengths of predetermined size.       26.    a kit of parts according to clan 24 or 25, wherein said wire is circular in section and has a   diarneter    of not more than 6.0mm. and wherein said socket portions are each adapted to receive an end portion of the wire with a clearance of from 0.05 to 0.254mm.   27. a kit of parts according to claim 26, wherein the wire has a diameter of from 1.6mm to   3.omtn    and wherein said clearance is from 0.10 to 0.178mm.   28. a kit of parts according to claim 26 or 27, which includes a supply of adhesive for adhesively securing end portions cf the   wire    in said socket portions.   29. a kit of parts according to any one of claims 24 to 28, wherein said wire is plastics coated wire.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
