<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0012612
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800625
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<main>B62M-25/06</main> B62M-25/06 B62M-9/10 B62M-11/06 B62M-25/00 B62M-11/00 B62M-9/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
multi-speed transmission for bicycles.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
lapeyre fernand s<sep>lapeyre, fernand stephen<sep>lapeyre, fernand stephen1224 octavia streetnew orleans, louisiana 70115us<sep>lapeyre, fernand stephen  <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
lapeyre fernand stephen<sep>lapeyre, fernand stephen<sep>lapeyre, fernand stephen1224 octavia streetnew orleans, louisiana 70115us<sep>lapeyre, fernand stephen<sep>lapeyre, fernand stephen1224 octavia streetnew orleans, louisiana 70115us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a multi-speed bicycle transmission located in the pedal  hub and actuable through the drive pedals.  drive gears (92, 94, 96) are rotatable about the pedal  shaft (32) and can be selectively brought into driving engage­ ment with the shaft by means of a mechanism including a  shiftcollar (312), the axial position of the collar along the pe­ dal shaft determining which drive gear is engaged.  a shift pin  (308) extends into the hub from a tubular frame member and  is displaceable radially against a spring (310).  inclined cam­ ming channels (320,322) in the shift collar (312) cooperate  with the shift pin and are shaped to effect longitudinal dis­ placement of the collar upon reverse rotation of the pedal  shaft.  on forward rotation of the pedal shaft, the shift pin  (308) is forced radially outwardly and no longitudinal displace­ ment of the collar is effected.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
multi-speed transmission for bicycles tis invention relates to multi-speed bicycle transmissions and more particularly to transmissions located in the pedal hub and responsive to displacment of the drive pedals. such a transmission is described and claimed in published european patent application no. 78300091.2 (publication no. no. 0 000 278) in the name of the present applicant and reference is directed to that co-pending application. the present invention seeks to provide an improved multi-speed bicycle transmission which shares the advantages of the transmission described and claimed in the co-pending application but which is mechanically less complex and which is more economic to manufacture. accordingly, the present invention consists in a multispeed transmission fur bicycles, comprising a pedal shaft rotatably displaceable within the peda; shaft hub of a bicycle frame; gear means adapted for selected driving engagement with said pedal shaft; a collar member mounted on said pedal shaft for rotation in conjunction therewith and permitted longitudinal displacement therealong; camming means disposed on the surface of said collar member and shift control means disposed within said pedal shaft hub, displaceable radially of said pedal shaft and operatively engageable with said camming means in response to a predetermined arc of reverse rotative displacement of said pedal shaft for displacing said collar member longitudinally of said pedal shaft for effecting the selected connection of said drive gears into driving engagement with said pedal shaft; characterised in that said shift control means comprises a pin member extending inwardly of said pedal shaft hub and in that said camming means comprises recessed channels in said collar member engageable with said pin member. in one form of the invention, a plug member is mounted within a tubular bicycle frame member which is mounted at one end on the pedal shaft hub. the pin member comprises a shift pin which is displaceably mounted in said plug member and biassed into compressive engagement with the surface of the collar member. advantageous ] y, each recessed channel in the collar member has a substantially perpendicular side wall engageable with the shift pin during reverse rotative displacement of the pedal shaft to effect collar displacement longitudinally of the pedal shaft and a sloped side wall disposed in spaced facing relationship with said substantially perpendicular side wall selectively engageable with the shift pin during forward rotative displacement of the pedal shaft to permit rotative displacement of said collar in conjunction with forward rotative displacement of the pedal shaft without longitudinal displacement of the collar relative thereto. the shift control means of the present invention is, as it will be appreciated, mechanically less complex than that of the earlier arrangement and transmission means according to the present invention whilst sharing the advantages of the earlier arrangement can be manufactured and assembled more easily and at a lower cost. the invention will now be described by way of example with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which: figure 1 is a schematic side elevational view of a bicycle constructed in accordance with the principles
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims   1. a multi-speed   transmission    for bicycles, comprising a pedal shaft rotatably displaceable within the pedal shaft hub of a bicycle frame; gear means adapted for selected driving engagement with said pedal shaft; a collar member mounted on said pedal shaft for rotation in conjunction therewith and permitted longitudinal displacement therealong;  camming means disposed on the surface of said collar member and shift control means disposed within said pedal shaft hub, displaceable radially of said pedal shaft and   operatively    engageable with said camming means in response to a predetermined arc of reverse rotative displacement of said   pedal    shaft for displacing said collar member longitudinally of said pedal shift for effecting the selected   connection    of said drive gears into driving engagement with said pedal shaft; characterised in that said shift control means comprises a pin member extending inwardly of said pedal shaft hub and in that said camming means comprises recessed channels in said collar member engageable with said pin member.   2. a bicycle transmission according to claim 1, wherein the camming means comprises a first pair of recessed camming channels positioned in diametrically opposed relation to a second pair of recessed   camming    channels.   3. a bicycle transmission according to claim 1 or claim 2, further comprising means normally biassing said pin member into compressive engagement with the surface of said collar member.   4. a bicycle transmission according to any one of claims 1, 2 and 3, wherein each recessed channel has a substantially perpendicular side wall engageable with said pin member during reverse rotative displacement of the pedal shaft to effect collar displacement longitudinally of the pedal shaft and a sloped side wall disposed in spaced facing relationship with said substantially perpendicular side wall selectively engageable with the pin member during forward rotative displacement of the pedal shaft to permit rotative displacement of said  collar in conjunction with forward rotative displacement of the pedal shaft without longitudinal displacement of the collar relative thereto.   5. a pedal displacement actuable multi-speed transmission for bicycles, comprising a pedal shaft rotatably displaceable within the pedal shaft hub of a bicycle frame, a plurality of drive gears rotatably mounted on said pedal shaft, a change gear disposed in meshed engagement with each of said drive gears, each of said change gears being mounted for conjoint rotation on a common shaft, means for connecting each of said drive gears into selective driving engagement with said pedal shaft, a pin member extending   inwardly    of said pedal shaft hub, collar means having recessed camming channel means on the surface thereof mounted on said pedal shaft for rotation in conjunction   therewith    and permitted longitudinal displacement therealong,  said recessed   camming    channel means being operatively engageable with said pin member in response to a predetermined arc of reverse rotative displacement of said pedal shaft for displacing said collar means longitudinally thereof, and means responsive to the positional location of said collar means longitudinally of said pedal shaft for effecting the selected connection of said drive gears into driving engagement with said pedal shaft.   6. a pedal displacement actuable multi-speed transmission for bicycles, comprising a cylindrical pedal shaft hub having a tubular bicycle frame member terminally mounted thereon, a pedal shaft rotatably displaceable within said pedal shaft hub, a plurality of drive gears rotatably mounted on said pedal shaft, means for connecting each of said drive gears into selective driving engagement with said pedal shaft, a plug member mounted in said tubular frame member at the junction thereof with said pedal shaft hub, collar means mounted on said pedal shaft for rotation in conjunction therewith and permitted longitudinal displacement therealong, a displaceable shift pin mounted in said plug member and biassed into  compressive engagement with the surface of said collar member,  recessed camming channel means on the surface of said collar means and operatively engageable with said shift pin in response to a predetermined arc of reverse rotative displacement of said pedal shaft for displacing said collar means longitudinally thereof, and means responsive to the positional location of said collar means longitudinally of said pedal shaft for effecting the selected connection of said drive gears into driving engagement with said pedal shaft.   7. a bicycle transmission according to claim 6, wherein said recessed camming channel means includes a first pair of selectively shaped channels positioned in diametrically opposed relation to a second pair of selectively shaped channels in the surface of said collar means.    8. a bicycle   trancmission    according to claim 7, wherein each   of¯-said    channels includes an angularly disposed section having a substantially perpendicular side wall selectively engageable with said pin member during reverse rotative displacement of said pedal shaft to effect collar displacement longitudinally of said pedal shaft.      9. a bicycle transmission according to claim  & wherein each    said angularly disposed channel has a sloped side wall disposed in spaced facing relationship with said substantially perpendicular side wall selectively engageable with said pin member during forward rotative displacement of said pedal shaft to permit rotative displacement of said collar in conjunction with forward rotative displacement of said pedal shaft without longitudinal displacement of said collar relative thereto.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
