<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0009945
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800416
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<main>B60P-3/025</main> E04B-1/344 B60P-3/025 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
mobile refreshment equipment.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
efde brian albert ernestgb<sep>harrison petergb<sep>efde, brian albert ernest<sep>harrison, peter<sep>efde, brian albert ernest3 beach courtwhitefriars crescent westcliffe on sea essexgb<sep>harrison, peter194 ilford laneilford essexgb<sep>efde, brian albert ernest<sep>harrison, peter  <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
efde brian albert ernest<sep>efde, brian albert ernest<sep>efde, brian albert ernest3 beach courtwhitefriars crescent westcliffe on sea essexgb<sep>harrison, peter194 ilford laneilford essexgb<sep>efde, brian albert ernest<sep>efde, brian albert ernest3 beach courtwhitefriars crescent westcliffe on sea essexgb<sep>harrison, peter194 ilford laneilford essexgb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a vehicle semi-trailer 10 is equipped internally with fit足 tings for conducting bar trade on a substantial scale at open  air functions.  it is openable over most of the area of one or  both sides and movable panels 23 - 26, 210 rest on a support足 ing structure 38, 208 alongside the semi-trailer to provide an  extension floor for consumers' use.  this is level with the floor  12, 226 in the semi-trailer.  the consumers' area is provided  with access steps 96, 228 and safety rails 97, 220 around it, and  is roofed over giving the psychological impression that cus足 tomers and bar staff are in a single, partially enclosed space  divided by the bar 100, 246, 248 as in an english public house,  rather than separate spaces.  the level of equipment is suffi足 cient to allow proper hygiene.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
mobile refreshment equipment this invention relates to mobile equipment for the supply of food and/or drink at open air functions such as agricultural shows, racing events, open air trade exhibitions, etc. at most large-scale outdoor events it is usual to supply some form of refreshments to persons attending and this has generally involved use of a marquee. considerable labour is entailed in setting up a marquee and equipment within it, and because of its temporary nature such equipment frequently provides poor hygiene and poor working conditions for staff. moreover in the united kingdom at least, health and safety regulaions lay down stringent requirements for the protection of the public, for example stipulating that all food or drink for public consumption should be stored at a height of at least 18 inches above ground level, and requiring the provision of washing facilities. with the usual temporary marquee it is difficult if not impossible to comply with these requirements. mobile vehicles and caravans are known which are fitted out for the provision of food and drink to customers and which are positioned at the side of a road in order to sell to passers-by. the volume of trade handled by such vehicles or caravans is much less than that which would be handled in a marquee at a large open air function. generally such vehicles and caravans provide little or no shelter for their customers who are generally served through a relatively small hatch in the side of a vehicle. this provides not only a physical separation of the customers from the person serving them but also - because the customers feel that they are in the open air while the person serving them is not - there is a psychological separation, an impression of being in two different places. in general the customers are at ground level whereas the staff are standing on the floor within the caravan or vehicle, which further enhances the psychological separation. the standard to which such mobile vehicles is fitted is frequently not sufficient to give good hygiene and could not accommodate a larger volume of trade. german offenlegungsschrift 2261237 is a proposal for such a vehicle for selling light meals at the roadside, but which is fitted out to a higher standard than is frequently encountered. the customers are, as is usual, required to stand at the level of the road and are thus at a lower level than the person serving them through a hatch in the side of the vehicle. the discrepancy in height is emphasised by the fact that a surface provided for customers' use is at a lower level than the working surfaces inside the vehicle. french specification 1014110 also proposes a vehicle fitted out to provide refreshments. this is said to be intended for such open air functions as fairs and sports meetings. however, a number of bar stools are provided along the sides of the vehicle, and these will reduce the amount of trade which can be conducted by
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims   1. a mobile unit having a floor, side and end walls, and a roof and provided with equipment for conducting catering or bar trade, the equipment including at least a counter 100, 246, 248 or other working surface and storage means 114,   118    242 for crockery, cutlery and/or glasses, the unit being openable over at least part of at least one side 14, and having one or more movable panels 23-26, 210 and support means 38, 208 therefor to support the panels adjacent that side as an extension floor to the unit, which floor provides at least part of an area for consumers' use, characterised in that the extension floor is raised above ground and adjoins the unit at substantially the same level as the floor 12 inside the unit, stairs 96, 228 or other means being provided for ascending from ground level to the consumers' area, and a safety barrier 97,  220 to surround the consumers' area except at the points of access thereto.   2. a unit according to claim 1 characterised in that the upper level to which the side 14 of the unit opens is above the eye level of persons standing on the extension floor, and in that the consumers' area extends for at least a major proportion of the length of the  unit, and has a width greater than the height of the said upper level above the floor.   3. a unit according to claim 1 or claim 2 further provided with:  a sink 105 or other means 104 for washing crockery or glasses;  a water heater 109 and fixed plumbing for the supply of clean water to the heater;  means for connecting to sewerage or a store for waste water; and  an electrical isolator 112 for the connection of an external power supply, electric lighting, and fixed wiring connecting the isolator to the lighting and to sockets for the connection of other electrical equipment.   4. a unit according to any one of the preceding claims characterised in that the unit is openable from substantially the level of the extension floor to above the eye level of persons standing on the floor, at least some of the panels 23-26, 210 being hingedly attached to the unit at the lower edge of the openable side thereof.   5. a unit according to claim 4 characterised in that the said movable panels 23-26 comprise two series of rectangular panels each having opposite inner and outer edges, the inner edges of the first series 23, 24 of these panels being hingedly attached to the unit at the  lower edge of the openable side 14 thereof, the panels 23, 24 of the first series forming a closed side wall of the unit during transport thereof, and providing extension floor directly adjacent the unit when the unit is opened over the said one side, the second series 25, 26 of rectangular panels fitting along the same side of the unit immediately inside the first series of panels during transport and when the unit is opened lying alongside the outer edges of the first series 23, 24 of    panels to provide further ex extension floor at the same    level,  the distance between the inner and outer edges of each series of panels being a major proportion of the height of the openable side wall 14 of the unit.   6. a unit according to claim 4 or claim 5 characterised by having a counter 100 extending along the openable side of the unit, which counter is proximate the side edge of the unit but spaced inwardly therefrom by a distance 130 sufficient to accommodate the said movable panels 23-26 adjacent but outwardly of the counter 100 during transport of the unit.   7. a unit according to claim 6 which is fitted for conducting bar trade, having a bar back fitting 114 behind the said counter which back fitting includes shelves for glasses and/or bottles, also optics 116 for dispensing spirits.     8. a unit according to any one of the preceding claims further comprising a set of parts 70, 71, 73 assemblable to form a roof over the said extension floor adjacent the unit.   9. a unit according to claim 4 characterised in that - both sides are openable with two series of rectangular panels 210, 212 at each side of the unit the panels of each series having opposite inner and outer edges, the inner edges of the first series. 210 of panels at each side of the unit being hingedly attached to the unit at the lower edge of that side and providing extension floor directly adjacent the unit when the unit is opened over that side, the inner edges of the second series 212 of rectangular panels at each side being hingedly attached to the unit at the upper edge of that side, forming a roof over the first series 210 of panels when the unit is opened over that side, and forming a side wall of the unit during transport thereof, while the first series 210 of panels are disposed immediately inside the second series 212 of panels during transport,   the distance between the inner and outer edges of each series of panels being a major proportion of the height of the openable side wall of the unit.   10. a unit according to claim 9 characterised by having a plurality of movable bar counter sections 246,  248 which, when the sides of the unit are open can be positioned around a fixed island fitting 242 which includes shelves for glasses and/or bottles, and also optics for dispensing spirits.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
