<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0006612
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800109
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
F22B-33/00 B01D-1/00 <main>B01D-1/00</main> B01D-5/00 C23G-5/00 F25B-29/00 C23G-5/04 B01D-3/00 B08B-3/08 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
vapor generating and recovering apparatus.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
mccord james w<sep>mccord, james w.<sep>mccord, james w.9101 nottingham pwylouisville, kentuckyus<sep>mccord, james w.<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
mccord james w<sep>mccord, james w.<sep>mccord, james w.9101 nottingham pwylouisville, kentuckyus<sep>mccord, james w.<sep>mccord, james w.9101 nottingham pwylouisville, kentuckyus<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a vapor generating and recovering apparatus for va足 porizing a liquid and condensing a vapor, the apparatus  including a container having a liquid therein with a heating  and cooling system in heat transfer relation with the liquid  and vapor in the container.  the heating and cooling system  includes means to vaporize the liquid, means to condense  the vaporized liquid; and, means to compress a refrigerant.   the means to compress the refrigerant is in fluid communi足 cation on its high pressure side with the means to vaporize  a liquid or heat a liquid and on its low pressure side with  the means to condense or cool a liquid.  the heating and  cooling system further includes a complementary condens足 er system on the high pressure side of the means to com足 press a refrigerant, discharging its heat external to said  apparatus.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
vapor generating and recoverdig apparidus this invention relates to a vapor generating and recovering apparatus for vaporizing a liquid and condensing a vapor and more particularly relates to an improved apparatus for vaporizing a liquid and condensing a vapor in combination with a heating and cooling system. in the present state of the art, vapor generating and receovering devices for vaporizing and condensing a liquid are utilized in many different areas. for example, in the cleaning of objects such as metallic tools, plastic parts, and the like, hot or boiling solvents have been utilized to remove undesirable soluble and particulate matter from these tools, parts, and the like by immersing the soiled object into hot or boiling solvent. in bringing the solvent to a boiling temperature, a solvent vapor zone is created above the boiling solvent solution in the tank or chamber in which objects may be placed for cleaning. the vaporized solvent is then subjected to cooling or condensing means and is recovered. generally, the chamber or tank from which the solvent is vaporized is filtered or processed by other means to remove the contaminants therefrom and then reused. one example of a heating and cooling system which is utilized in the prior art is described in u.s. patent no. 4 003 798. however, this system is specifically directed for use with an apparatus including separate vaporizing and condensing chambers and the liquid to be vaporized includes at least two components therein and must use a bypass system. it has now been found that a vapor generating and recovering apparatus for vaporizing a liquid and then condensing the vaporized liquid in the cleaning of objects, the cleaning can be accomplished by the utilization of a heating and cooling system which utilizes substantially all of the energy supplied to a refrigeration system with little or no waste wherein at least one chamber is utilized for both vaporization and condensation, and the liquid may be a single component, which is, if used in a cleaning reclamation, or developing application, a liquid solvent of a low molecular weight halogenated hydrocarbon, such as, for example, trichloromonofluoromethane, methylene chloride, trichlorotrifluoroethane, and the like. in the present invention, the heating and cooling system includes a refrigerant compressor, a main refrigerant condenser, a complementary condenser, expansion means and a refrigerant evaporator. the main refrigerant condenser is in heat transfer relation with means to vaporize a liquid and the main refrigerant evaporator is in heat transfer relation with means to condense a vaporized liquid. in the heating and cooling system more energy is available to this system as heat due to the motor input energy and the motor inefficiencies of the refrigeration system and must be removed. some of this heat is removed by radiant energy loss, by conduction of heat through the apparatus, and by heat absorbed by the parts being processed. there are occasions where these techniques of heat rejection are not sufficient to totally balance the system. this excess energy removal is accomplished in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
i cl#s#ims:   1. vapor generating and recovering apparatus for vapor   izing    a liquid and condensing a vapor, characterized in that it includes a housing having at least one compartment therein, said compartment having a liquid therein, and that it further includes a heating and cooling system in heat transfer relation with said liquid and said vapor in said compartment, said system including a main condenser in heat emitting relation with said liquid; a main evaporator in heat absorbing relation with said vapor;  a complementary condenser in heat emitting relation in said system disposed outside said   comp  tment,    and, means to compress a refrigerant, said means to compress being in fluid communication on its high pressure side with said main condenser and said complementary condenser, and on its low pressure side with said main evaporator, said system including expansion means disposed between said main condenser and said main evaporator.   2. vapor generating and recovering apparatus according to claim 1, characterized in that said complementary condenser is water cooled.      3.    vapor generating and recovering apparatus according to claim 1, characterized in that said complementary condenser is air cooled.   4. vapor generating and recovering apparatus according to claim 1, characterized in that said complementary condenser is refrigerant cooled.   5. vapor generating and recovering apparatus according to claim 1, characterized in that said complementary condensor is actuated in response to preselected pressure in said system.     6. vapor generating and recovering apparatus   accordi# to    claim 1, characterized in that said complementary condenser is actuated in response to preselected temperature in said apparatus.   7. vapor generating and recovering   apparatus    according to claim 1, characterized in that said complementary condenser is in series with said main condenser.   8. vapor generating and recovering apparatus according to claim 7, characterized in that said complementary condenser is upstream of said main condenser.   9. vapor generating and recovering apparatus according to claim 7, characterized in that said complementary condenser is downstream of said main condenser.   10. vapor generating and recovering apparatus according to claim 1, characterized in that said complementary condenser is parallel with said main condenser.   11. vapor generating and recovering apparatus according to claim 1, characterized in that it includes a complementary evaporator in heat absorbing relation in said system disposed outside said compartment.   12. vapor generating and recovering apparatus according to claim 11, characterized in that said complementary evaporator is water heated.   13. vapor generating and recovering apparatus according to claim 11, characterized in that said complementary evaporator is air heated.   14. vapor generating and recovering apparatus according to claim 11, characterized in that said complementary evaporator is heated with a thermal fluid.     15. vapor generating and recovering apparatus according to claim 11, characterized in that said complementary evaporator is actuated in response to preselected pressure in said system.   16. vapor generating and recovering apparatus according to claim 11, characterized in that said complementary evaporator is actuated in response to preselected temperature in said apparatus.   17. vapor generating and recovering apparatus according to claim 11, characterized in that said complementary evaporator is in series with said main evaporator.   18. vapor generating and recovering apparatus according to claim 17, characterized in that said complementary evaporator is upstream of said main evaporator.   19. vapor generating and recovering apparatus according to claim 17, characterized in that said complementary evaporator is downstream of said main evaporator.   20. vapor generating and recovering apparatus according to claim 11, characterized in that said complementary evaporator is parallel with said main evaporator.   21. vapor generating and recovering apparatus according to claim 1, characterized in that it includes a by-pass system from the high pressure side of said system to the low pressure side of said system.   22. vapor generating and recovering apparatus according to claim 21, characterized in that said by-pass is in series with said main evaporator.   23. vapor generating and recovering apparatus according to claim 21, characterized in that said by-pass is  in parallel with said main evaporator.   24. vapor generating and recovering apparatus according to claim 21, characterized in that said by-pass is actuated in response to a pre-selected pressure in said system.   25. vapor generating and recovering apparatus according to claim 24, characterized in that said preselected pressure is on the low pressure side of said system.   26. vapor generating and recovering apparatus according to claim 24, characterized in that said preselected pressure is on the high pressure side of said system.   27. vapor generating and recovering   apparatus    according to claim 21,   characterized    in that said by-pass is actuated in response to a preselected temperature in said apparatus.   28. vapor generating and recovering apparatus according to claim 27, characterized in that said preselected temperature is in said compartment.   29. vapor generating and recovering   apparatus    according to claim 27, characterized in that said preselected temperature is in said low pressure side of said system.   30. vapor generating and recovering apparatus according to claim 27, characterized in that said preselected temperature is in said high pressure side of said system.   31. vapor generating and recovering apparatus according to claim 1, characterized in that it includes a refrigerant receiver therein on the high pressure side of said system.     32. vapor generating and recovering apparatus according to claim 31, characterized in that said refrigerant receiver and said complementary condenser is in heat transfer relation therewith.   33. vapor generating and recovering apparatus according to claim 1, characterized in that it includes a suction accumulator on the low pressure side of said system.    34. vapor generating and recovering apparatus according to claim 33, characterized in that said suction accumulator is in heat transfer relation with said complementary evaporator.   35. vapor generating and recovering apparatus according to claim 1, characterized in that it includes a heat transfer system in heat absorbing relation with said main condenser and in heat emitting relation with said liquid.   36. vapor generating and recovering apparatus according to claim 1, characterized in that it includes a heat transfer system in heat emitting relation with said main condenser and in heat absorbing relation with said vapor.   37. vapor generating and recovering apparatus according to claim 14, characterized in that said thermal fluid is liquid refrigerant in said system.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
