<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0011359
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800528
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
G01R-31/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
method and apparatus for testing electrical circuits.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
american gage & machus<sep>american gage & machine company<sep>american gage &amp; machine company853 dundee avenue elgin, illinois 60120 us <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
mills frank hus<sep>mills, frank h.<sep>mills, frank h.2437 n. richmondchicago illinois 60647us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a method and apparatus for measuring current drain  and other circuit parameters, particularly in vehicular electri­ cal systems, the apparatus utilizing a reference current  source (80,82) passed through a commonly available system  element (8) (the battery ground strap in an automobile) to  calibrate a visual indicator (66) in the circuit (14,20,18,38,66)  for the particular system being tested.  readings of electrical  values can then be made for various parts of the system  under test.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
title: method and apparatus for testing electrical circuits. this invention relates generally to a method and apparatus for testing electrical circuits. more particularly, but not exclusively, it relates to a method and apparatus useful for measuring electrical values in vehicular electrical systems. vehicular electrical systems utilize a battery and an alternator or generator as sources for the energy required. ground for such systems is usually provided by connecting the negative battery terminal to a metallic portion of the vehicle through a socalled battery strap. this strap is a conductor of some size as the current flow in the system may be substantial, particularly when the vehicle engine is being started. various types of circuits have been provided for testing these circuits. one such circuit with which the applicant is familiar is connected to the system by removing the battery ground strap and connecting a shunt of known resistance in series. a current drain is caused by creating a load and the voltage drop across the shunt is then used to calibrate the test circuit. another known method is the "substitution method" in which connections are made to the battery post and a voltmeter. a load such as the starter is energized and the battery terminal voltage read. a dummy variable load within the tester is then connected across the battery. the circuit with the dummy load includes an ammeter. the dummy load is adjusted until the voltmeter reads the value as that previously read when the starter was energized. at this point there is supposed to be at least an approximation of the current drain as indicated on the ammeter when the starter was energized other elements of the electrical system are tested in the same way. b third technique uses a sensor such as a hall effect device which is responsive to a magnetic field such as would be created by current flow in a conductor. the sensor is brought to the vicinity of the conductor and produces a signal proportional to the current flow therein. these devices and their associated circuitry are relatively costly. the applicant's knowledge of and experience with the foregoing methods and apparatus has led him to the conclusion that they are unstable or inaccurate or depend much upon the skill of the operator. in addition they are relatively costly to make: therefore this invention seeks to provide in an embodiment a novel electrical test apparatus which is reliable and accurate. this invention also seeks to provide in an embodiment a novel electrical test apparatus which is relatively easy to use because it may be quickly connected to an electrical system to be tested and does not require that any of the elements of the system be themselves disconnected. this invention further seeks to provide an embodi ment which utilizes standard electrical components, including readily available solid state components, and which therefore is relatively inexpensive to manl- facture, and in addition, maz be constructed as an easily transported instrumen, according to a first aspect of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:   1. a method of testing electrical systems having a number of different circuits, each with its own   load    and a conduc#tive element (8) having an unknown   resistor    ance common to all through   wlich    current in   two    system flows when any one or more of the loads is   energized;    comprising:  the step of connecting a current measuring circuit   (14,20,18,38,66)    including an indicator (66) to the common conductive element (8), the step of passing a known current   through    the common conductive element (8) and at the same time calibrating the indicator (#) to eliminate the effect of different resistances   whizz    may exist in the common   cond#ctive    element (8), and then energizing any one or more of the loads in the different circuits of the electrical   system    and   means    uring the current through the common conductive   elevanr    (8) caused by the energized load or loads.   2. a method according to claim 1, wherein the second step is effected in part by regulating the current flow in the common conductive element (8).   3. a method according to claim 2, wherein the second step is effected in part by adjusting the gain (40,42) of the current measuring circuit.      4.    a method according to any one of claims 1,2 or 3, including the step of selecting an operating range   (51,53,55)    for the indicator (66).   5. a method according to any one of claims 1 to   4    wherein said electrical system includes a battery   sou-c:-re    (2) and said conductive element (8) is connected   between    the battery terminal (6) and the ground   (9)    whereby   wdex     any one or more of the loads is energized current will flow in the ground conductor (8), and wherein said current measuring circuit   (14,20,18,38,66)    is connected to said ground conductor (8).   6. a method according to claims 2 and 5, wherein the second step is effected in part by connecting a current regulating circuit (80,82) to ground   (9)    and to the ungrounded terminal (4) of the battery (2).      apparatus    for testing electrical systems having a number of different circuits, each with its own load and a conductor (8) connected between a terminal (6) of a source (2) and common ground (9) whereby when any one or more of the loads is energized current will flow in the conductor (8) comprising a current measuring circuit   (14,20,18,38,66)    including an indicator (66) and variable gain amplifying means (18) having two inputs (14,20) and having its output (38) connected to said indicator (66), means for connecting (10,12) the inputs of said amplifying means (14,20) across the ground conductor (8), means for drawing (80,82) a known current through the ground conductor (8) and means for selectively (76) connecting said last mentioned means (80,82) to said current measuring circuit (14,20,18, 38,66).   8. apparatus as claimed in claim 7, wherein said amplifier (18) is a differential amplifier.   9. apparatus as claimed in either claim 7 or claim 8, wherein range selection means (49) are provided between the output (38) of said amplifier (18) and said indicator(66).     10. apparatus as claimed in claim 9, wherein means (76) are provided for selectively connecting said range selection means (49) to said source terminal (4), said selectively connecting means (76) comprising a multiple contact switch (76,58,74).   11. apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 7 to 10, wherein said means for drawing (80,82) a   knows    current through the ground conductor (8) comprises a current regulator (80,82) and means for connecting (86,88) said current regulator (80,82) to ground (88) and a terminal (4) of the source (2).    12. apparatus as claimed in claim 11, wherein said current regulator (80,82) comprises a voltage regulator (80), a transistor means (82) connecting the control electrode(98) of said voltage regulator (80) to said transistor (82) to control the conduction thereof, and means (86) for connecting the control electrode (98) of said transistor (82) to said source terminal (4), means for connecting (96) the output of said transistor (82) to one end of a fixed resistor (84) and means (86) for connecting the other end of said fixed resistor   (84) to    ground (9).  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
