<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0009662
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800416
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B41J-3/01 G06K-15/02 B41J-3/02 B41J-3/00 B41B-27/28 G09G-5/24 B41B-27/00 G06K-15/10 G09G-1/02 <main>G06K-15/10</main> 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
method and apparatus for storing and reconstructing chinese-like characters.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
ibmus<sep>international business machines corporation<sep>international business machines corporationold orchard road armonk, n.y. 10504 us <sep>international business machines corporation<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
yu wellington chia-peir<sep>yu, wellington chia-peir<sep>yu, wellington chia-peir1808 schooldale drivesan jose california 95124us<sep>yu, wellington chia-peir<sep>yu, wellington chia-peir1808 schooldale drivesan jose california 95124us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
in a method and apparatus for reconstructing chinese  characters such as in a printer system, each of the characters  is divided into a pair of components a and b at least one of  which a occurs in one or more other characters.  the compo­ nents which have a height equal to the height of a standard  character cell are stored together with information as to the  locations of the components across the width of the standard  character cell for each character.  the components may be  stored in a compressed form, in which event the information  as to their location forms a part of the compressed data.   when a given character is to be reconstructed, the first com­ ponent thereof is transferred to a buffer where it is temporar­ ily stored at the proper location across the width of a stan­ dard character cell.  thereafter, the second component is  transferred to a logic circuit together with the temporarily  stored first component, and the two are logically or'ed to  form the complete character.  the complete character may  then be advanced to imaging apparatus of a printer or other  utilizing means.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
method and apparatus for storing and reconstructing ch@@ese -like characters the present invention relates to arrangements for wring sets of characters and like information for re e*)nstruction by a rela,od y?tem, and more particularly to printers in which sets of charac-r,ers are stored in a raster format for use by the printer in response to incoming signals identifying characters to be printed it is well known to provide one or more sets of characters in a printer arrangement 2 which incoming signals identify characters to be printed. the character sets perform a translation function by lr¯-viding to the printer the appropriate raster pattens o other modulation bits in response to incoming commands to print particular characters so that the actual imaging apparatus of the printer can effect the physical printing of the characters. a difficulty which commonly plagues printer systems is that of storage capacity for the character sets. depending upon printer resolution and other factors a large number of bits may have to be stored for each character. if the additional requirement for storing several different sets of characters is imposed, an even greater storage burden is placed upon the system. moreover, certain types of characters such as chinese characters are relatively complex and typically require relatively large storage capacities, particularly if enough d is to be stored to provide for printed characters ol high resolution. various techniques have been emplayed in an attempt to reduce the storage capacity required in various printer systems. a common technique is to compress the bit stream for purposes of storage of the characters with the compressed data being thereafter decompressed prior to use. an example of compression is provided by u.s. patent 3,987,412 of thomas harvey morrin. the arrangement shown in the morrin patent provides compression by virtue of the format the data is presented in for purposes of printing. morrin discloses a border-following scheme in which as each dot of a character is printed the printer then vectors directly to the nearest dot which is the next to be printed. arrangements such as that described in the morrin patent are generally useful in reducing the required storage space in printers having various different types of characters and character sets. over and above those considerations, it is desirable to further save on storage space where complex characters are used. this is particularly true, for example, in the case of chinese characters and like oriental characters which tend to be relatively complex in terms of the bit patterns that must be stored to print them. the problem is particularly severe where high resolution requirements are imposed. one example of an arrangement for reducing the storage capacity required by oriental characters is described in a publication by shen et al, "interactive ideographic system", ibm technical disclosure bulletin, vol. 17, pp. 2024-2027, december 1974. another example is provided by hasegawa in japanese patent application publication no. 49/129947 and is entitled "character generating system". hasegawa describes a system for composing characters by combining certain elementary symbols
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
    claims      1. a machine implementable method for reconstructing chinese-like whole characters in a designated alphabet comprising the steps of storing component parts of like size in a given dimension of the chinese-like characters in the designated alphabet as a first set of data together with representations of the locations of the component parts within a standard space occupied by each character as a second set of data; and responding to a command to reconstruct a given character from the designated   alphabet''in    the standard space by selecting the component parts of the given character from the first set of data and locating the selected component parts within the standard space in accordance with representations of the location of the component parts from the second set of data.   2. a method as claimed in claim   1,    wherein no greater than two component parts are stored for each character.   3. a method as claimed in claim 1, wherein each character is stored as a plurality of component parts together with representations of the spacings of the component parts from a common edge of the character space.   4. a method as claimed in claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein the step of responding to a command to reconstruct a given character includes the step of printing the given character within the character space on a printable medium using the component parts and the respresentations of location.   5. a method as claimed in claim 1, 2, 3 or 4, wherein the component parts are of like height and the second set of data comprises representations of the   spacing    of the components from a vertical starting edge of the character space.     6. a machine implementable method for reconstruction of whole characters in a designated alphabet comprising the steps of dividing each of the   character    of the designated alphabet into a plurality of components and storing a graphical representation of each component together with information as to the identities and relative locations of the components comprising each of the characters; and thereafter responding to a command to reconstruct a given one of the characters by identifying the components comprising the character and information as to the relative locations of the components within the character; and superimposing the graphical representations of the identified components in accordance with the information as to the relative locations of the components to form a   graphical    representation of the character.   7. a method as claimed in claim 6, wherein the graphical   reprsentation    comprise electrical signals and the step of superimposing consists of logically or'ing the signals comprising the graphical representations of the identified components.   8. a method as claimed in claim 7, wherein the electrical signals comprising each graphical representation are arranged in a raster pattern.   9. a machine implementable method for reconstruction of chinese characters comprising the steps of dividing each of the plurality of chinese characters into two components based on the occurrence of at least one of the components in other ones of the plurality of chinese, characters, each component having a height equal to the height of a standard character cell defining the space required by each of the characters; storing a representation of each of the components; determining the position of the components across the width  of the character cell for each of the characters; storing a representation of the position of each component of a character across the width of the standard character cell;  transferring the representation of the first component of a character to be reconstructed into temporary storage in response to.a command to reconstruct the character, the temporary storage defining the standard character cell and the first component being temporarily stored therein in accordance with the stored representation of the position of the first   components    across the width of the standard character cell; transferring the representation of the second component of a character to be reconstructed into the temporary storage in response to the command to reconstruct the character, the second component being temporarily stored there in accordance with the stored representation of the position of the second component across the width of the standard character cell;  and   reconszructin:    the character using the first and second components in the temporary storage 10. a method as claimed in claim 9, wherein each of the first and second components of each character begins at a lefthand reference margin of the standard character cell.   11. a method as claimed in claim 9, wherein the first component of each character begins at a lefthand reference margin of the standard character cell and the second component of each character begins a fixed distance from the lefthand reference margin.   12. a method as claimed in claim 9, wherein the first and second components of each character begin at distances from a lefthand reference margin of the standard character cell which are variable and which may vary from character to character.     13. a machine implementable method for the reconstruction of chinese-like whole characters comprising the steps of encoding each chinese-like character c in a designated alphabet as the code equivalent of selected members of a first stored set r of dot matrix graphical components and selected members of a second stored set d of displacement rotation, and width information, set r consisting of unique subcharacters elected from these whole characters partitionable into two subcharacters at least one of which is common to a plurality of the whole characters; and forming selected ones of the chinese-like character c by logically combining members of the sets r and d such that:     c=r1d10r2d2 where &commat; is a general boolean logical operator, r1 and r2 are    selected from the set r and d1 and   d2    are selected from the set d.   14. a machine for reconstruction of chinese-like whole characters, each of which can be divided into components, most of which are common to a plurality of the characters, each of the characters being contained within a character cell of fixed size, comprising the combination of first storage means for storing signals representing each component, the signals defining the component and the location of the component within the character cell for each of the characters that the component forms a part of; second storage means for temporarily storing signals representing characters to be reproduced; a logic circuit coupled between the first storage means and the second storage means; means for providing a command to reproduce a particular character;   means responsive to the command for transferring the signal representing a first component for the particular character through the logic circuit for temporary storage in the second storage means; means responsive to temporary storage of the signal   representing the first component to the logic circuit together with the signal from the first storage means representing a second component for the particular character, the logic circuit combining the signals representing the first and second components of the particular character so as to superimpose the second component on the first component within the character cell with the combined signals being temporarily stored in the second storage means; and means responsive to combined signals temporarily stored in the second storage means for recreating the characters   jrepresent.ed    by the combined signals.    15. a machine as claimed in claim 14, where each of the components has a height equal to the height of the character cell and the first storage means is divided into first and second sections, the first section storing the signals representing the components and the second section storing the signals representing the positions of the components along the width of the character cell for the different characters.   16. a method as claimed in claim 14 or 15, wherein the first storage means includes means for encoding each component to be stored by boundary following the borders thereof and means for decoding each component retrieved from storage.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
