<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0012575
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800625
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
E05D-11/00 E05D-11/10 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
cabinet hinge.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
pyramid pluggb<sep>pyramid plug company limited<sep>pyramid plug company limitednorth worksguilden sutton, near chester cheshire ch3 7exgb  <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
king peter gregorygb<sep>king, peter gregory<sep>king, peter gregorythe whins caldy roadcaldy, cheshiregb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a cabinet hinge has two leaves (110, 112) each moulded  from synthetic plastics material and pivotted together (114,  115) on assembly.  one leaf (110) is l-shaped and the other  (112) has a well to receive one limb (120) of the other leaf  (110), which has a resilient extension part (140) presenting a  convexity to engage on abutment (156) on the one leaf (112)  and give successive progressive resistance and progressive  latching of the leaves into their 90° position.  the l-shaped  leaf (110) is of channel section to fit by a screw through holes  176 on a mounting plate having grooving to cooperate for lo­ cation and adjustment purposes with teeth (119) and forming  a bearing surface for another screw through hole (196) also  for adjustment purposes.  the hinge leaves may have integral  pivot formations and the l-shaped leaf can be secured direct­ ly rather than via a mounting plate.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
title: cabinet hinge. description the invention relates to hinges and has particular, though not necessarily exclusive, application to socalled cabinet hinges for the attachment of doors to furniture units such as casings of cupboards, cabinets or like articles of furniture. it is advantageous if such hinges can be provided with resilient means to serve as a catch for a door in its closed position by its action in a final small arc of closing movement. also, of course, further advantage accrues if such hinges can be made, especially moulded, from synthetic plastics material that incorporate such resilient means and are readily assembled together. it is therefore an object of this invention to provide a hinge construction that meets these objectives. to this end, we propose a hinge comprising two leaves that are each whblly of moulded plastics material and are hinged together at a pivot axis for relative rotation of the leaves, one of said leaves having an integral resilient part presenting a convexity, and the other of said leaves having a cavity and an abutment past which said resilient part must pass to enter into said cavity during a final arc of relative rotation of the leaves to their closure position, said resilient part and said abutment having a mutual sliding action that first progressively compresses said convexity with subsequent holdingbentrapment by the abutment, preferably by way of progressive expansion of said convexity. in using the term "convexity" we do not intend necessarily to imply a surface of continuous or constant curvature, though such is generally preferred and will be specifically described. however, u-, or v-shapes or chamfers separated by a medial land or flat might be employed, as could asymmetrical curvatures and slopes. preferred hinges have a first leaf of generally l-shape and a second leaf having a well or slot as said cavity to accommodate one limb of the first leaf in a 1'closed" position of the hinge leaves wherein surfaces to which the hinge leaves are to be attached are at substantially 900 one to the other. mutual hinging may be on a metal pivot pin or may be between formations at or near the end of said one limb and at or near the bottom of said well or slot. the first leaf then may have said integral resilient part as an extension directed generally oppositely and, often, towards said one limb to terminate in a bent or hooked end turned towards said one limb. a suitable cooperating abutment of the second leaf is a ledge or lip at or near the top of the well or slot of the second leaf. preferred hinge leaves with integral pivot formations permit of ready assembly of their inter engaging formations without the use of tools. thus, the desired pivotting and retention may be provided by protrusiorson one leaf to cooperate with recesses on the other leaf also having lead-in grooves of progressively reducing depth for the protrusions so that the two leaves may be slid one into
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
title: cabinet hinge.    claims 1. a cabinet hinge comprising two leaves each comprising a single plastics moulding and hinged together when assembled for relative rotation of the leaves, one of said leaves having an integral resilient part presenting a convexity, and the other of said leaves having a cavity and an abutment past which said convexity must pass on entry into said cavity during a final arc of relative rotation of the leaves into their closure position during which said resilient part and said abutment have a sliding action that first progressively compresses said convexity before subsequent holding entrapment by the abutment.   2. a cabinet hinge according to claim 1, wherein the convexity and the abutment ensure that said holding entrapment is accompanied by progressive relaxation of said convexity, and wherein said one leaf is of generally   it shape    to hinge to the other leaf at or near one end, and the other leaf has a well as said cavity, the well accommodating the hinged limb of the one leaf in a closed position of the hinge where the unhinged limb of the one leaf and the other leaf extend substantially at right angles to each other.   3. a cabinet hinge according to claim 2, wherein the  one leaf has said resilient part as an extension from a medial part of its unhinged limb first towards the other leaf in the closed position of the hinge and then curved therefrom towards the unhinged limb to afford a bent or hooked shape as said convexity, and wherein said extension is from within a recess of the unhinged limb.   4. a cabinet hinge according to claim 3, wherein the abutment is a lip-like ledge near the top of said well.   5. a cabinet hinge according to any one of claims 2 to 4, wherein the well is a slot open to its side at the hinging position.   6. a cabinet hinge according to claim 5, wherein the hinge leaves have integral cooperating formations affording said hinging when snap fitted together.   7. a cabinet hinge according to claim 6, wherein the one leaf has recesses accommodating hinge pin projections of the other leaf and its said slot, and the one leaf has grooves leading to said recesses with progressively decreasing depth to aid assembly.   8. a cabinet hinge according to any one of claims 2 to 4, wherein the other leaf has a substantial wall about its well for location purposes in conjunction with a spaced screw mount hole in a flange.   9. a cabinet hinge according to claim 8, wherein the flange also has a locating extension adjacent its screw mount hole.   10. a cabinet hinge according to claim 8 or claim 9, wherein the wall about the well has part-circumferential  grooving to aid retention in an accommodation therefor.      11.    a cabinet hinge according to any one of claims 8 to 10, wherein the flange is proud of the well embodied in the height of the leaf.    12. a cabinet hinge according to any one of claims 8 to 11, wherein the leaves are hinged by a metal pin pressed therethrough.   13. a cabinet hinge according to any one of claims 2 to 12, wherein the other limb of the one leaf is of channel section to fit over a mounting plate of moulded plastics material, and wherein the mounting plate is shaped to fit within and below ribs on upper parts of walls of the channel section, end edge parts of the mounting plate being grooved to assist selective location on end teeth of said ribs.   14. a cabinet hinge according to claim 13, wherein the mounting plate has a hole to which the one hinge leaf is adjustably secured by a self-tapping screw through an elongate hole in the leaf, and the one leaf has a further hole for a self-tapping screw to pass and bear against the mounting plate.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
