<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0009985
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800416
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
G05D-23/01 G05D-23/13 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
thermostatic mixer valve.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
delta materials research ltdgb   <sep>delta materials research limited<sep>delta materials research limitedp.o. box 22 hadleigh roadipswich suffolk ip2 0eggb<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
hart william barriegb<sep>hart, william barrie<sep>hart, william barrie1 almondhayesipswich, suffolkgb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a thermostatic mixer valve comprises a valve body  (12); two inlet ducts (13,14) for liquids at different tempera­ tures and an outlet duct (55) for mixed liquid; valves  (15,16) controlling entry of liquid through each of the inlet  ducts (13,14); a rotatable and linearly displaceable cam  member (23) engaged by, and controlling, both valves  (15,16); manually operated means (36) for rotating the cam  member (23) to control the volume of flow delivered by the  outlet duct (55); a shape memory effect element (45) sub­ ject to the temperature of liquid within the body (12) and  coupled to the cam member (23) to vary the linear position  of the cam member (23) relative to the valves (15,16) and  hence to vary differentially the rates of flow of liquid pas­ sing the valves (15,16); and further manually adjustable  means (34) for varying the linear position of the cam  member (23) in order to select the temperature at which  the liquid within body (12) is maintained.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
thermostatic mixer valve this invention relates to a thermostatic mixer valve, in which liquids are supplied to the valve at different tefmperatures, and the mixed liquid outlet is maintained thermostatically at a desired temperature. a thermostatic mixer valve of the present invention makes use of an element of a material having an elastic modulus which varies significantly with temperature in a reversible manner (hereinafter called "a variable elasticity material"). a number of variable elasticity materials are known and have been described in the literature: in the present invention, we prefer to employ an alloy which exhibits the above property, and particularly a copper-zinc-aluminium alloy. in west german published patent application no. 27 20 886 there is illustrated but not described a thermostatic mixer valve having a valve body, two inlet ducts in the valve body for connection to liquids supplied at different temperatures, an outlet duct from the body for mixed liquid, an outlet duct from the body for mixed liquid, valve means for varying the ratio of the flows through the inlet ducts and therefore the temperature of the mixed liquid, a temperature sensitive device comprising an element of variable elasticity material (called in said application " shape memory effect (sme) material") subject to the temperature of the liquid within the body and controlling the valve to maintain the temperature of the mixed liquid substantially at a desired value, and means for controlling the volume of mixed liquid leaving the body through the outlet duct. the present invention provides an improved form of thermostatic mixer valve which is adapted for commercial production. that valve is intended primarily for shower installations, but may be employed in other applications where the temperature of a mixture of two liquids is to be maintained substantially constant. the present invention provides a thermostatic mixer valve as described above and is characterised in that the valve means comprise first and second valve members within the valve body to control the flows from the inlet ducts and a rotatable and linearly displaceable cam member engaged by both the valve members and coupled to the temperature sensitive device to adjust the ratio of flows passing the valve members, the means for controlling the volume of liquid through the outlet duct also acting on the cam member to vary in the same direction the flows passing the valve members. preferably, the means for controlling the volume of liquid are coupled to cause rotation of the cam member, while the temperature sensitive device is effective to alter the displacement of the cam member relative to the valve members. the element of variable elasticity material may be stressed by a resilient biasing device. the invention will be more readily understood by way of example from the following description of a thermostatic mixer valve in accordance therewith, reference being made to the accompanying drawings, in which figure 1 is an axial section through the valve, and figure 2 is a plan view of the cam member of figure 1. the valve
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims   1. a thermostatic mixer valve comprising a valve body; two inlet ducts in the valve body for connection to liquids supplied at different temperatures; an outlet duct from the body for mixed liquid; valve means for varying the ratio of the flows through the inlet ducts; a temperature sensitive device comprising an element of variable elasticity material subject to the temperature of the liquid within the body and controlling the valve to maintain the temperature of the mixed liquid substantially at a desired value;  and means for controlling the volume of mixed liquid leaving the body through the outlet duct:  characterised in that the valve means comprise first and second valve members (18) within the valve body (12) to control the flows from the inlet ducts and a rotatable and linearly displaceable cam member (23) engaged by both the valve members (18) and coupled to the temperature sensitive device (45) to adjust the ratio of flows passing the valve members, the means (36) for controlling the volume of liquid through the outlet duct also acting on the cam member (23) to vary in the same direction the flows passing the valve members (18).   2. a thermostatic mixer valve according to claim 1, characterised in that the means (36) for controlling the volume of liquid are coupled to cause rotation of the cam  member (23), while the temperature sensitive device (45) is effective to alter the linear displacement-of the cam member  (23) relative to the valve members (18).   3. a thermostatic mixer valve according to claim 1 or claim 2, characterised in that there are means (30, 32, 34) for varying the temperature to which the temperature of the mixed liquid is controlled.   4. a thermostatic mixer valve according to claim 3, characterised in that the temperature varying means (30, 32, 34) operates to displace linearly the cam member (36) and the temperature sensitive device (45).   5. a thermostatic mixer valve according to claim 2, characterised in that the temperature sensitive device is a helical spring (45) of variable elasticity material stressed by spring biasing means (46).   6. a thermostatic mixer valve according to claim 5, characterised in that the helical spring (45) is made of a copper-zinc-aluminium exhibiting a temperature dependent martensitic transformation.   7. a thermostatic mixer valve according to claim 5 or claim 6, characterised in that the helical spring (45) of variable elasticity material is arranged between the cam member (23)  and a shaft (28) and is placed in compression by the biasing means (46) also acting effectively between the cam member (23) and shaft (28), and the shaft is displaceable axially by manually adjustable temperature varying means (30, 32, 34).    8. a thermostatic mixer valve according to any one of the preceding claims, characterised in that the cam member (23) is in section at right angles to its axis of rotation in the form of two semi-ellipses, the major axes of which are the equal and coincident, and the minor axes of which are different and vary differentially along the axis of rotation of the cam member, and the valve members (18) engage the cam member diametrically opposite one another, so that axial movement of the cam members (23) varies differentially the valve members (18), while rotation of the cam member (23) varies the valve members (18) in the same direction.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
