<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0005134
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19791031
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B23K-9/013 B23K-9/04 B44B-7/00 B21C-51/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
a method of and an apparatus for marking metal objects
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
ssab svenskt stal abse<sep>ssab svenskt stal ab<sep>ssab svenskt stal abbox 163 44s-103 26 stockholmse<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
bergstedt ulfse<sep>bergstedt, ulf<sep>bergstedt, ulfpl 7723s-951 90 lulease<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a method of and an apparatus for marking metal objects, especially metal billets at high temperature, are disclosed.  the marking will enable selective identification of the object in question.  a marking head (3) is utilized, having at least one electrode (4) for providing character is built up in a matrix form on the object (1) by means of an electric arc process.  the characters consist of matrix parts in the form of welded-on projections, in which case a consumable electrode is utilized, preferably in conjunction with the principles for gas metal arc welding, or alternatively of matrix parts in the form of recesses, in which case a non-consumable electrode is utilized, preferably in conjunction with the principles for plasma arc cutting.  the marking head (3) preferably comprises a sequence of electrodes (4) which are activated selectively in conjunction with relative displacement between the marking head and the metal object (1) to provide the desired character matrix parts.  by sensing that necessary electrode current has been consumed in conjunction with an activation of an electrode, a confirmation can be obtained that the desired character matrix part has actually been provided. 
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
a method of and an apparatus for #nrking metal objects technical field the present invention relates to the marking of metal objects or articles such as metal billets, metal sections etc., especially objects made from steel and particularly objects having very high temperature, typi- cally 700-10000c. the billets and sections produced in 2 steelworks or steel plant must be marked to enable later identification of the billets and sections. a minimum requirement is that a charge code or designation, usually comprising five characters, is provided on the billets or sections. it is often further required that a serial number, usually conprising two characters, is applied. customers may also require that the billets or sections are marked according to an internal numbering or code of their own. in conjunction with continuous casting, there is often the requirement that a casting number is to be applied. the marking, which must be sufficiently resistant and permanent to be undestroyed, inter alia during subsequent processing, handling and storage of the billets and sections, is today a very large problem for stecluorks, since there is no marking method which functions well and which is acceptable from the point of view of cost, as will be apparent from the following account of marking methods known at present. background art manual marking can be done either by painting on characters or by separately stamping in each character. such manual marking is epensive, uncertain (which leads to rejections and complaints) and has to be done in a very poor working environment for the one carrying it out (due to the very high temperature of the billets or sections) . neither does this manual marking give the pcssibi lity of automatically reading markings in conjunction with later handling of the billets or sections. a marking method which is often utilized today means that a stamping head is struck affiainst the object to be marked by means of an impact cylinder driven by compressed air, so that digits arranged on the stari;ping head are impressed into the surface of the object. the digits are arranged on a number of parallel, separately settable digit wheels. each digit wheel has ten digits distributed round its circumference, enabling setting an optional digit combination. the greatest disadvantage with this method is that if the surface on the billet which is to be marked is uneven (which is often the case), many characters can be unreadable or confusable. for example, an "8" can look like a "3", etc. furthermore, the result of the marking is very sensitive to a possible angular misalignement between the stamping head and the billet and the mechanical stresses are very high due to large impact forces, which involves design problems. this, together with the combination of great heat and dirt at the digit wheel bearings or mountings, gives considerable risk of operational disturbances. another proposed marking method means that metal tags, on which are stamped the necessary characters, are being spiked onto a billet, for example, with the aid of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims   1.   a    method of   selectively,    identifiably   marking      very    hot metal objects such as billets, sections and the like, especially of steel, characterized by providing characters on the metal object by electric arc processing, the metal object being marked in matrix form to form characters especially digits   and/or    letters, while using at least one electrode.      2.      a    method as claimed in claim 1,   characteried    by marking the metal object in matrix form, by selective activation of electrodes arranged in rows and/or columns and in association with the surface of the metal object which is to be marked.      3.    a   method    as claimed in claim 2, characteri¯ed in that a plurality of sequentially spaced electrodes are   utili#ed    the electrodes and the metal object being given relative movement in a direction substantially transverse to the general sequence direction, and substantially parallel to the surface to be marked on the metal object,  an electrode being   selectively    activated when it has a position relative to said surface corresponding to a matrix part of the character to be provided on said surfac   a.    a   method    as claimed in any of claims   1-3,      characteri    ed by checking that a correct character is provided on the metal object by sensing for which matrix parts the necessary electrode current for marking on the metal object is consumed and comparing the combination of matrix parts  thus obtained with the combination of matrix parts app   licable    for the character selected for marking.   5. a method as   clnimed    in any of claims 1-4, characterized by applying by welding electrode material to the metal object in the form of matrix parts.   6. a method as claimed in claim 5, characterized by utilizing the principles of gas metal arc welding, preferably while using a protective gas.   7. a method as claimed in claim 5 or 6, characterized by utilizing an electrode material which has substantially the same or similar analysis as the metal object.   8. a method as claimed in any of claims 1-4, characterized by selectively removing by cutting material from the metal object in the form of matrix parts.   9. a method as claimed in claim 8, characterized by utilizing the principles for plasma cutting.   10. an apparatus for selectively, identifiably marking very hot metal objects such as billets, sections and the like, especially of steel, characterized in that it comprises a marking head for electric arc processing,   said    marking head being arranged for placing adjacent the surface of the metal object intended for marking and including at least one electrode for applying material from the   electrode to, or elternatively removing material from    said surface of the metal object, utilizing an electric arc; means for supplying gas round the electrode; means for current supply to   said      at    least one electrode; means for giving the metal object to be marked and the marking  head relative movement;   and a control unit for controlling the   .ibove-mentioned    means for current supply and relative movement so that said at least one electrode can be caused to mark the metal object to form a   character    in matrix form on said object.   11. an apparatus as claimed in claim 10, characterized in that the marking head includes a number, preferably   five    or seven, of electrodes arranged sequentially spaced from each other, and in that means are provided for causing the marking head and metal object relative movement substantially transverse to the general sequence direction and substantially along the   surface    of the metal object to be marked.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
