<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0014281
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800820
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B63B-35/73 A47C-27/14 B63B-35/74 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
aquatic mat.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
advanced sports corp<sep>advanced sports corp.<sep>advanced sports corp.912 reverly p.o. box 2143 wichita falls texas 76367us<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
wood robert l us<sep>wood, robert l.<sep>wood, robert l.2010 wilsonwichita falls texasus<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a bouyant, flexible, resilient aquatic mat for use on water  surfaces adapted to support one or more persons.  the mat  comprises an elongated slab and a headrest formed of the  same material.  the material of the mat comprises a unicellu­ lar, non-water absorbent, plastic foam.  the material compris­ ing the mat may have a tough plastic coating over the entire  surface or by use of a suitable plastic foam material the mater­ ial comprising the mat may be used without a coating.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
this invention related to an aquatic floatation mat or cushion providing sufficient buovanny to permit a person to lie on the mat in water. aquatic mats now used for recreation and sports purposes are generally of the inflatable type. although the inflatable types are satisfactory, they require the task of inflating them prior to use and deflating them after use. rurtberore, inflatable types can easily be punctured1 ripped or torn this will require patching, and if the tear or rip is large enough and cannot be patched, will render the mat useless the floatation mat of the present invention constitutes an improvement over inflatable mats by eliminating the require- ment for inflation and also eliminating the problem of punctures, rips and tears. summary of the invention it is an object of this invention to provide a novel aquatic mat with a headrest having a simplified construction, which is capable of floating on water, and which can support one or more persons. it is another object of this invention to provide a novel aquatic mat having a headrest wherein the entire mat is manufactured from buoyant flexible, resilient slab materials. another object of this invention is to provide a novel buoyant, aquatic mat having a headrest for supporting a person's head containing one or more transverse open voids, which provide additional buoyancy to the headrest. a further object of this invention is to provide a novel buoyant aquatic mat having a headrest containing an enclosed chamber or chambers wherein the bottom of the headrest chamber has vent holes for providing equalization of pressure in the chamber and for providing additional buoyancy to the headrest. generally the buoyant aquatic mat comprises an elongated, flexible, resilient, planar slab member and a headrest member containing a transverse void formed from the same material as the planar slab member. the slab material comprises a unicellular, non-water absorbent plastic foam. the material comprising the mat may have a tough plastic coating over the entire surface or by use of a suitable plastic foam material, the material comprising the mat may be used without a coating. several embodiments of the mat are described. furthermore, a modification adaptable to all the embodiments of the mat comprises slab material enclosing the ends of the void of the headrest forming an air chamber. an additional modification of the headrest with enclosed chambers is the provision of vent holes disposed through the bottom of the headrest communicating with the air chamber. other features and advantages of the various embodiments of the aquatic mat of the invention will become apparent from the following description of specific embodiments thereof taken in conjunction with the drawings description of the drawings figure 1 is a perspective view of one embodiment of the aquatic mat of this invention; figure 2 is a side elevational view of the aquatic mat shown in figure 1; figure 3 is a top plan view of the aquatic mat shown in figure 1; figure 4 is a side elevational view of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims:    1. an aquatic floatation mat capable of floating in water and supporting one or more persons, comprising an elongated planar member having top and bottom planar surfaces and a headrest secured to and extending from an end portion of said planar member; said planar member and said headrest formed from closed cell, unicellular, plastic foam slab members, which are flexible, resilient and nonwater absorbent; said headrest slab member having ends thereof secured to an end portion of said planar member, and includes one open transverse void above said top planar surface.    2. an aquatic floatation mat capable of floating in water and supporting one or more persons, comprising an elongated planar member having top and bottom planar surfaces and a headrest secured to and extending from an end portion of said planar member; said planar member and said headrest formed from closed cell, unicellular, plastic foam slab members, which are flexible, resilient and non-water absorbent; said headrest slab member having ends thereof secured to an end portion of said planar member, and includes one open transverse void above said top planar surface; said elongated planar member having transverse ribs formed by creasing the elongated planar member; said crease being placed so as to enable the aquatic mat to be easily rolled up.    3. the aquatic mat of claims 1 or 2, wherein the headrest is curved around an end portion of said planar member, the ends of said headrest are secured to the top and bottom planar surfaces at an intermediate portion near the said end portion of said planar member, and the end edge of said planar member is secured to an inner surface of said curved headrest slab member thereby forming two transverse voids, wherein one void is above said top planar surface and one void is below said bottom planar surface of said planar member.      4. the aquatic mat of claims 1 or 2, wherein the plastic foam material has a surface coating of a tough pliable, plastic material.    5. the aquatic mat of claims 1 or 2, wherein said headrest comprises a curved slab member on each said top and bottom planar surface at said end portion of said planar member, one end of each said respective slab member secured to the said end portion of said respective planar surface and the other end of each said respective slab member secured to an intermediate portion of said respective planar surface near said end portion thereby forming two transverse voias, wherein one void   isabove    and one void is below said planar member.    6. the aquatic mat of claims 1 or 2, wherein said headrest comprises one curved slab member on said top planar surface of said planar member, one end of said slab member secured to the end portion of said top planar surface and the other end secured to an intermediate portion of said top planar surface near said end portion thereby forming one transverse void above said top planar surface.    7. the aquatic mat of claims 1 or 2, wherein said headrest comprises one curved slab member on said top planar surface of said planar member, one end of said slab member secured to the end edge of said planar member and the other end secured to an intermediate portion- of said top planar surface near said end portion thereby forming one transverse void above said top planar surface.    8. the aquatic mat of claims 1 or 2, wherein said plastic foam is produced from polyvinylchloride.      9. the aquatic mat of claim 4, wherein said plastic coating material is firmly adherent to said plastic foam.    10. the aquatic mat of claim 4, wherein said plastic coating is a sprayed coating.    11. the aquatic mat of claim 4, wherein said plastic coating is a dipped coating.    12. the aquatic mat of claims 1 or 2, wherein said headrest comprises end members enclosing said transverse voids to form an air chamber.    13. the aquatic mat of claim 12, wherein said headrest has an enclosed transverse void disposed below the bottom planar surface comprising vent holes in the bottom portion of said headrest communicating with said enclosed air chamber.    14. the aquatic mat of claim 6, wherein said headrest comprises end members enclosing said transverse void to form an air chamber, and vent holes disposed through said planar member communicating with said air chamber.     15. the aquatic mat of claim 2, wherein said transverse ribs are provided by placing creases on one planar surface of said elongated planar member.    16. the aquatic mat of claim 2, wherein said transverse ribs are provided by placing creases on both respective planar surfaces of said elongated planar member equidistant into said respective planar surfaces and opposed.      17. the aquatic mat of claim 15, wherein one crease is provided equidistant from the ends of the elongated planar member.    18. the aquatic mat of claim 16, wherein two transverse ribs are provided by placing one crease in each planar surface of the elongated planar member equidistant from the ends of the elongated planar member; said creases being equidistant into said respective planar surfaces and opposed.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
