<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0012176
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800625
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
H04R-19/01 H04R-19/00 H04R-1/06 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
electret microphone.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
northern telecom ltdca<sep>northern telecom limited<sep>northern telecom limited1600 dorchester boulevard westmontreal quebec h3h 1r1ca<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
dolan bruce irwinca <sep>dragunevicius algirdas jonasca   <sep>gumb beverley williamca<sep>morrell ronald josephca<sep>wojcik jacek jozefca<sep>dolan, bruce irwin<sep>dragunevicius, algirdas jonas<sep>gumb, beverley william<sep>morrell, ronald joseph<sep>wojcik, jacek jozef<sep>dolan, bruce irwin32 oberon streetnepean ontario, k2h 7x7ca<sep>dragunevicius, algirdas jonas272 southcrest drivelondon ontarioca<sep>gumb, beverley william18 conifer crescentlondon ontarioca<sep>morrell, ronald joseph3, romokaontarioca<sep>wojcik, jacek jozef1 tarquin crescentnepean ontario, k2h 8j7ca<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a telephone transmitter sub-assembly has an electret  clamped between a pair of printed circuit boards.  the elec­ tret conducting surface and printed circuit patterns on the  boards have an overlapping arrangement at a planar junc­ tion.  the arrangement connects a capacitor, of which the  electret forms part, into an amplifying circuit.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
this invention relates to microphone transmitters for telephones and is particularly concerned with such transmitters whose operation is based on the capacitive properties of an electret. manufacture of telephone transmitters must meet a number of performance criteria; for a volume manufacturer, these criteria must be reconciled with a design which is simple and lends itself to mass production. dwelling for a moment on what could be termed the common features of an electret microphone or transmitter, it can be viewed as having an acoustic system and an electrical monitoring system. the acoustic system ensures that, in response to sound pressure waves, the electret vibrates and, as will be shown hereafter, it typically has a front chamber having a passage for sound pressure waves, an electret, mounted so that it is unwrinkled, and a rear chamber allowing the electret to vibrate. the electrical monitoring subsystem has, typically, a laminar conductor spaced from the electret's charged surface and monitoring leads from the conductor and from the electret's conducting surface to monitor capacitance variation between the conductor and the electret. turning now to prior art embodiments of the schematic design, recent ones feature structures which combine the mounting and monitoring functions. as disclosed in u.s. patent 3,895,194, hollow rectangular conductors provide both the means for monitoring the potential at the electret's conducting surface and also the means for clamping the electret to a centre plate, (first level). the centre plate has a conducting coating facing and spaced from the electret's charged surface (second level). the coating extends through a hole in the plate onto its reverse surface. mounted against a part of this surface, (third level), and electrically contacting it, is a miniature imperforate circuit board from whence the potential at the other face of the electret capacitor can be monitored. the reverse surface of the plate is recessed, (fourth level), over part of its area to allow fluid communication between the front and rear chambers. this subassembly thus has four levels at which electrically conducting means are formed. u.s. patent 4,046,974 likewise has a centre plate, (first level), with a conducting coating facing and spaced from the electret's charged surface, (second level). the coating extends through holes in the plate onto its reverse surface. mounted against this surface is a circuit board from which the potential of one face of the electret capacitor is monitored. the other potential is monitored from the top surface, (third level) of an apertured conducting plate which clamps the electret against an insulating spacer, (fourth level), itself located against the centre plate. the monitoring contact, a u-shaped sprung member, has a tail which fits into terminals, (fifth level), projecting from the circuit board to complete the circuit. this sub-assembly thus has five levels at which electrically conducting means are formed. the profusion of junction layers at which electrical conduction and mechanical clamping takes place is, it is considered, unwarranted and for mechanical integrity and facilitates volume manufacture, a simplified structure makes more sense. in its broadest aspect
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 1. an electret assembly for a telephone   transmitter the assembly comprising:  an electret having a capacitive surface and a conducting surface, the electret mounted in a generally planar aspect permitting vibration thereof in response to pressure differentials transverse of the plane of the electret; a first conductor located close   to,    but spaced from, the electret capacitive surface; and a second conductor electrically contacting the electret conducting surface;  characterised in that the first conductor is a first conducting area (6b) of a first conducting pattern (6) on a first circuit board (4) the second conductor is a second conducting area of a second conducting pattern (7) on a second circuit board (5) spacing means (8) adjacent the first board (4) to space one electret part from said first conducting area (6b) said second board (5) being configured to accomodate said spacing means (8) and said one electret part, clamping means clamping said first and second circuit boards (4, 5) together, said circuit boards (4, 5) having matched contours at a junction region, in which region:  (i) another part of said electret (1) is clamped between the boards (4, 5) whereby to mount said one electret part over said spacing means (8); and  (ii) said conducting patterns (6, 7) face one another and have predetermined contact areas with each other and with the electret conducting surface.    2. an electret assembly as claimed in claim 1 further characterized in that said matched contours produce a substantially planar junction region.      3. an electret   assn lv    as   clal,¯d    in   clalm    1 or 2 further characterised in that the circuit boards (4, 5) each have at least one perforation (9, 18) extending therethrough, said spacing means (8) and said one electret part being accompdated in the or each perforation (18) in said second circuit board.    4. an electret assembly as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3 in which said first circuit board (4) has an array of thick film deposits to form said spacing means (8).    5. an electret assembly as claimed in any of claims 1 to 4 further characterised in that said clamping means are stakes (14).    6. an electret assembly as claimed in any of claims 1 to 5 further characterised in that edge portions of the circuit boards (4, 5) are coincident, said electret (1) projects from between said coincident edge portions, and a spring u-piece is clamped over each coincident edge portion to clamp the projecting electret (1) and edge portions together.    7. an electret assembly as claimed in any of claims 1 to 6 further characterised in first and second terminals (g and s) located respectively on the reverse side of one of the circuit boards (4, 5) the terminals (13) connected via,said conducting patterns (6, 7) respectively to said first and second conducting areas (6b, 7).      8. an electret assembly as claimed in   claim    7 further characterised in that said terminals (g, s) are located on a reverse surface of the first board (4), said first conducting area (6b) is connected direct to the first terminal (g), and the second conducting area (7) electrically contacts both the electret conducting surface and a third conducting area being electrically connected to the second terminal (s).    9. an electret assembly as claimed in claim 7 further characterised in that said terminals (g, s) are located on the reverse surface of the second plate, said first conducting area (6b) electrically contacts a third conducting area (35) on the second board, said third conducting area (35) is connected to said second terminal (s), and the second conducting area   (36)    is electrically connected to the first terminal.    10. an electret assembly as claimed in claim 7 wherein a reverse surface of one of the circuit boards (4, 5) supports circuit components electrically connected to said terminals (g, s).    11. an electret assembly as claimed in claim 10 further characterised in that one of said components is a field effect transistor (fet) (17) having source, gate and drain terminals (s, g, d), one of said first and second terminals (g) functioning as the fet gate terminal and the other of said first and second terminals functioning as one of the fet source and drain terminals.      12. an electret   assemblv    as   cla med    in   cla#      11    further characterised in that said components also include a pair of output terminals (13) connected respectively to the gate terminal (g) and to the other of the fet source and drain terminals.    13. an electret assembly as claimed in claim 12 further characterised in that said assembly is substantially rectangular, the electret (1) and the perforations (9, 18) being aligned and substantially centrally located and the fet (17) and output terminals (13) located on opposite sides of the centrally located perforations.    14. a telephone transmitter having an assembly as claimed in any of claims 3 to 13 further characterised in a two-part housing (11, 30) the first part (30) of said housing having sound inlet apertures, the sound inlet apertures and the perforations (9, 18) in said circuit boards (4, 5) being generally aligned.    15. a telephone transmitter as claimed in claim 14 further characterised in a second part (11) of said housing having a chamber (10) located on the remote side of the assembly from the sound inlet apertures and underlying said at least one perforation (9) in its adjacent circuit board (5).    16. a telephone transmitter as claimed in claim 14 or 15 further characterised in that an elastomeric member (31) intermediate the electret assembly and the second housing part     (      sroides    an acoustic seal between the electret assembly and the second housing part   t    at the boundary of the chamber.       17.    a telephone transmitter as claimed in claim 15 further characterised in said electret assembly having amplifying means mounted thereon, said amplifying means projecting into the chamber (10).    18. a telephone transmitter as claimed in any of claims 14 to 17 said electret assembly further having output terminals (13) mounted thereon, said terminals accessible through a hole (12) in said second housing part (11).    19. a telephone transmitter as claimed in any of claims 14 to 18 further characterised in that said clamping means additionally clamp the two parts (11, 30) of said housing together.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
