<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0007791
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800206
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
C08F-212/00 B01J-41/14 B01J-39/20 C08F-212/14 C08L-29/00 C08L-29/02 C08F-12/00 B01J-41/00 C08F-8/00 B01J-20/26 B01J-20/22 B01J-39/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
polymer beads containing vinylbenzyl alcohol units, their production, processes for thermally crosslinking them, the thermally crosslinked beads and adsorbents and ion exchange resin formed therefrom.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
rohm & haasus<sep>rohm and haas company<sep>rohm and haas companyindependence mall westphiladelphia pennsylvania 19105us <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
hundermark david lus  <sep>reed samuel franklin jrus<sep>hundermark, david l.<sep>reed, samuel franklin, jr.<sep>hundermark, david l.732 rowland avenuecheltenham, pa 19012us<sep>reed, samuel franklin, jr.49 brookside driveholland, pa 18966us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
polymer beads containing at least 0. 5 percent by weight  vinylbenzyl alcohol units may be thermally crosslinked by  heating during or after the formation reaction thereof in the  presence of a free radical initiator, such that alpha-hydroxy  benzylic methylene and/or benzyloxy crosslinks are formed  between aromatic rings of the vinylbenzyl alochol units,  and/or between the vinylbenzyl alcohol units and other active  sites in the polymer.  the production of the thermally cross­ linkable addition polymers may be carried out directly from  vinylbenzyl alcohol monomer and at least one other mono­ mer, or indirectly by hydrolysis of vinylbenzyl chloride during  the polymer formation.  the crosslinked products are useful as  adsorbents, hydrogels and as intermediates in the prepara­ tion of other adsorbents and ion exchange resins.  the inven­ tion extends to the polymer beads containing vinylbenzyl  alcohol units, their production, processes for thermally cross­ linking them, the thermally crosslinked beads and adsorbents  and ion exchange resins formed therefrom.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
polymer beads containing vinylbenzyl alcohol units, their production, processes for thermally crosslinking them, the thermally crosslinked beads and adsorbents and ion exchange resin formed therefrom this invention is concerned with polymer beads containing vinylbenzyl alcohol units, with processes for making them and thermally crosslinking them, with the cross linked beads and with adsorbents and ion exchange resins formed therefrom. resin beads intended for ion exchange and related uses are conventionally cross linked during their preparation to a level which depends upon the degree of swelling and density desired in the product. for example, ion exchange resins which have been synthesized with low levels of crosslinker are less dense than those which have been made with high levels of crosslinking material. the extent of crosslinking, and therefore swelling and density, controls the selectivity of the resin with respect to species to be adsorbed or exchanged. the higher the level of crosslinking, the lower the solubility and swelling of the polymers in solvents. commonly, polymers are crosslinked during bead formation by copolymerizing and monoethylenically unsaturated compound with a polyethylenically unsaturated compound, such as in the copolymerization of styrene with divinylbenzene. this is a form of primary crosslinking. further crosslinking may take place during treatment of a linear polymer to incroporate active sites (to which can be attached ion exchange functional groups), such as occurs upon chloromethylation of styrene polymers or copolymers. the latter form of crosslinking is often termed "secondary crosslinking." polymer beads may be post-crosslinked by copolymerizing two monoethylenically unsaturated compounds, one of which also contains a group capable of crosslinking by condensation, and then treating the copolymer with a suitable reagent for reacting with such group. alternatively, a polymer may be formed from a monomer already containing an active site for attachment of an ion exchange group, by reaction under polymerization conditions with a polyfunctional crosslinking agent. u.s. patent 3,843,566 describes products of the last type, including polyvinylbenzyl chloride crosslinked with divinylbenzene as an intermediate in the preparation of macroreticular (otherwise known as macroporous) ion exchange resins. such product has the advantage over chloromethylated styrene polymers of substantial absence of secondary crosslinking. attempts have been made to avoid the use of added crosslinking agents by thermally crosslinking polymers containing at least 38 mole percent of alkyl vinyl aromatic hydrocarbons by heating at termperatures between 2400c and 260 0c for a time between 8 hours and 7 days in the presence of an inert gas. see u.s. patent 2,987,508. all of the foregoing crosslinking procedures require steps or other process conditiorswhich complicate the formation of the crosslinked resin bead, either by virtue of need for an added crosslinking agent or by extreme temperature requirements. such procedures also place limitations on total utilization of all reactants and resin bead properties, such as size uniformity, swelling and product use. we have now found that the incorporation of vinylbenzyl alcohol units into a polymer enables that polymer to be crosslinked, during or after formation, by mild heating in the presence of free radical initiator.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims: 1. beads of thermally crosslinkable addition polymer containing vinylbenzyl alcohol units and units of at least one other monomer said beads containing at least 0.5% by weight of the vinylbenzyl alcohol units, the polymer being such that, on thermal crosslinking, benzylic methylene links and/or benzyloxy links can be formed between aromatic rings of the vinylbenzyl alcohol units and/or between said aromatic rings and other active sites.   2. beads of crosslinked addition polymer, containing units of vinylbenzyl alcohol in an amount of at least 0.5% by weight and units of at least one other alpha, betaethylenically unsaturated monomer cross linked by alphahydroxy benzylic methylene links and/or benzyloxy links between aromatic rings of the vinylbenzyl alcohol units or between said aromatic rings and other active sites.   3. beads as claimed in claim 1 or 2 wherein the major proportion by weight   omt    the polymer cbmprises units of vinylbenzyl chloride and/or styrene and/or methyl methacrylate and/or vinyltoluene and/or 4-vinylpyridine.   4. beads as claimed in claim 1, 2 or 3 containing up to 20% by wieght of vinylbenzyl alcohol units,-the balance being vinylbenzyl chloride units.   5. a process for preparing thermally crosslinked polymer beads which comprises forming beads of addition polymer containing units of vinylbenzyl alcohol in an amount of at least 0.5% by weight and units of at least one other monomer, and heating said beads in the presence of free radical initiator to a temperature effective to cause formation of benzylic methylene crosslinks and/or benzyloxy cross links between aromatic rings of the vinylbenzyl alcohol units or between said aromatic rings and other sites in said polymer.   6. a process as claimed in claim 5 wherein the polymer beads are formed in an aqueous polymerization system containing free radical initiator and at a temperature effective to cause said thermal cross linking whereby the reactions to form the beads and to crosslink them are carried out at the same time.     7. a process as claimed in claim 6 wherein the aqueous polymerization system is a suspension or emulsion polymerization system containing free radical initiator, and the temperature is at least 650c.   8. a process as claimed in claim 5 wherein the temperature is 50 to   1200c.      9. a process as claimed in claim 5 wherein the polymer beads are formed in an aqueous polymerization system containing free radical initiator, and heating to thermal crosslinking temperature is effected after bead formation but while the beads are in the aqueous polymerization system.   10. a process as claimed in claim 9 wherein the aqueous polymerization system is a suspension or emulsion polymerization system and the thermal cross linking temperature is at least   70 c.      11. a process as claimed in claim 5 wherein after formation the polymer beads are   redispersed in    an aqueous medium and the aqueous bead dispersion is heated to effect thermal cross linking.   12. a process for preparing thermally crosslinked polymer beads as claimed in claim 2 which comprises polymerizing vinylbenzyl chloride to linear polymer bead form in an aqueous polymerization system containing free radical initiator and at alkaline ph, whereby at least 0.5% by weight of the vinylbenzyl chloride monomer units is hydrolyzed to vinylbenzyl alcohol units and heating the beads in the presence of free radical initiator to a temperature effective to form said crosslinks.   13. a process as claimed in claim 5 or 12 as applied to the preparation of a thermally crosslinked polymer as claimed in claim 3 or 4.   14. a macronet adsorbent comprising polymer beads as claimed in claim 2, further crosslinked in a swollen state with   (l)    priedel-crafts alkylating or acylating agent or (2) sulfur halide, in the presence of friedel crafts catalyst.    15. a macronet adsorbent comprising thermally crosslinked polymer beads as claimed in claim 3 further crosslinked  in a swollen state with (1) friedel-crafts alkylating or acylating agent and   friedel-craits    catalyst, (2) a sulfur halide and a friedel-crafts catalyst, or (3) lewis acid, as crosslinker.   16. a macronet adsorbent as claimed in claim 15 wherein the lewis acid is a sulfonating agent or a friedel-crafts catalyst.   17. an ion exchange resin comprising crosslinked beads as claimed in claim 2 or macronet adsorbent as claimed   in'    any of claims 14 to 16 bearing ion exchange functional groups.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
