<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0014690
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800820
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B27G-13/04 B27G-13/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
improvements in tool inserts and tools adopting such inserts.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
stark italianait<sep>stark italiana s.p.a.<sep>stark italiana s.p.a.i-33050 trivignano udinese (udine)it<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
solari sergioit <sep>solari, sergio <sep>solari, sergiovia nervesa 25i-33100 udineit<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
tool inserts, advantageously but not restrictively inserts  for rotating tools.  the inserts being formed of a cutting bit  (11), bit clamping and locking cap means (12) and securement  means (14) advantageously screw means.  projection means (25) provided in the tool head (29) are  interferring partially with the cap means (12).  other projection  means (23) provided in the cap means (12) are interferring  partially with the securement means (14).  one projection (23) is cooperating with the means (12,14)  with which it interfers, to generate a lateral clamping force  due to the effect of the centrifugal force.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
description of the invention entitled: "improvements in tool inserts and tools adopting such inserts" in the name of stark italiana s.p.a. of thivignano udinese (ud) filed on under no the object of the present invention is improvements in tool inserts and tools adopting such inserts. to be more specific, the present invention relates to im improvements in tool inserts and in the seatings of such inserts, as well as to tools adopting such inserts and having such seat ings. according to the invention, the improvements, advantageously but unnecessarily limited thereto- are particularly useful for rotating heads, for instance, of the - type used for wood working in which the insert is subjected not only to the normal working stresses but also to a significant centrifugal force due to the high speed at which the tool is rotated at least during the testing phase. in this type of tools, in which the exerted stress due to the centrifugal force is considerable, considerable problems . related to the securement of the inserts manifest themselves diverse types of inserts have been studied, some work by expansion, others by lateral compression, others by the action . of one or more screws, but all have drawbacks that limit their use which leave the problem of safety unsolved. besides, these drawbacks lead to difficulties in-the replace ment of the tool bits (i.e. the parts of the insert that physi . cally perform the cutting in tools), to an unstable securement, . and to the risk of breakage of the securing element prevalently . formed of a screw and the subsequent detachment of the insert at nearly ten to eleven thousand revolutions, or even less, such drawbacks cause the single insert element to behave as potential projectiles ready to fly away. the present invention attempts to provide an insert which is - is safe for the operator whatever happens to the securement .means or the tools; in addition to this, the invention aims at . improving the efficiency of the insert and at the same time to simplify all the operation of substittting the worn out tool . bits. according to the invention, there are provided at least two .safety provisions; one is associated with the clamping cap - plate, for positioning and locking of the tool bits, the other associated with the clamping and locking means of said cap .plate to the body of the tool head, such safety provisions can .be materialized singularly or togetherly on an insert. according to the invention, even if they break, such clamp. ing and locking means of the cap plate to the tool head (means which are normally formed of a screw) whether due to the dynamic stresses or fatigue, or because a too high locking force has been applied, or for other reasons (for example manufacturing defects) there is no danger of the cap plate or the bit or parts of the clamping and locking means coming off. according to a preferential formulation an insert or bit is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims    1 - improvements in tool inserts, advantageously but not restric tively inserts for rotating tools, said inserts (10) being formed of a cutting bit (11), at least bit clamping and locking cap means (12) and securement means (14), advantageously screw   means,    there being provided in the tool head a special   counter.      sunk seat (32) placed superficially in at least part of the  tool (29), characterised by the fact of consisting of one or more of the following innovations:   projection    means (25) provided in the tool head (29) and in   terferring    at least partially with the said cap means (12) on   its    extraction in a substantially radial direction;    projection    means (23) provided in the said cap means (12) and  interferring at least partially with the said securement meals   (14);    at least one of said projections being cooperating with the    means -with    which it interfers, to generate an at least lateral.    clamping force due to the effect of the centrifugal force.   .2 - improvements in tool inserts as in claim   1 characterised      .by    the fact that the projection means (25) provided in the tool  head (29) partially extend over the cap.   .3 - improvements in tool inserts as in claim 1, characterised by the fact that the projection means (25) provided in the tool  head (29) extend into an intermediate longitudinal position with  respect to the cap.        4    - improvements in tool inserts as in claim 1, characterised  by the fact that the projection means (23) provided in the cap   (12)    extend at least partially into the housing seat (15) of    the    securement means (14) and substantially on top thereof.      .5    - improvements in tool inserts as in claim   1    characterised -   by    the fact that the projection means (23) provided in the cap (12) extend at least partially into the housing seat (15) of  the securement means (14) and substantially in an intermediate.    position with respect thereto.   .6 - improvements in tool inserts as in claim 1 and any of the  preceding claims, characterised by the fact that the projection means (23, 25) have a flat surface (26) cooperating with a simi lar surface (18, 24) provided in the blocked means (12, 14),  at least one of said flat surfaces being advantageously inclined  (18, 24).    .7 - improvements in tool inserts as in claim   i    and any of the  preceding claims up to and including claim 5, characterised by  the fact that the projection means (23, 25) have a curved sur face suitably cooperating with a surface (24) specially provided  in the blocked means   (12,    14).   .8 - tools, advantageously but not restrictively rotating tools,   chzracterised    by the fact of adopting one or more improvements  of the preceding claims.   .9 - improvements in tool inserts and tools adopting inserts   thus    improved in accordance with any of the preceding claims     as      described    and illustrated and for the conceived purposes.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
