<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0015697
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800917
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
F42D-1/04 F42B-3/10 F42D-1/00 F42B-3/11 F42B-3/00 F42B-3/16 C06C-7/00 F42B-3/26 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
non-electric delay detonator and assembly of a detonating cord and a delay detonator.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
du pontus<sep>e.i. du pont de nemours and company<sep>e.i. du pont de nemours and company1007 market streetwilmington delaware 19898us<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
bryan paulus<sep>bryan, paul<sep>bryan, paul176 lakeside roadhewitt new jersey 07421us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a non-electric delay detonator adapted for field-assembly  with a low energy detonating cord (21) has an expansion shell  (10) into which the cord is inserted at the time of use.  the pres足 sure pulse resulting from the detonation of the cord causes  the shell (10) to expand and an ignition charge (11) which is  disposed between the shell (10) and a rigid capsule (6) to be  actuated as a result of sudden compression between the ex足 pansion shell and the capsule.  the burning ignition charge ig足 nites a delay charge (5), which in turn ignites a priming charge  (3), causing a base charge (2) to detonate.  the presence of ig足 nition charge in the annular spacing between the shell and  capsule walls, as well as between the shell and capsule ends,  and the proper positioning of cord-gripping means (15) in shell  cavity (13), assure actuation of the ignition charge whether or  not the cord is shoved to the bottom of the shell (10).  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
non-electric delay detonator and- ass:shl3ly of a detonating cord ad a delay detonator the present invention relates to a nonelectric delay detonator, and to an assembly of a delay detonator and a low-energy detonating cord adapted to actuate the detonator. the hazards associated with the use of electrical initiation systems for detonating explosive charges in mining o?erations, i.e., the hazards of premature initiation by stray or extraneous electricity from such sources as lightning, static, galvanic action, stray currents, radio transmitters, and transmission lines, are well-recognized. for this reason, nonelectric initiation through the userof a suitable detonating fuse or cord has been looked upon as a widely respected alternative. a typical high-energy detonating cord has a uniform detonation velocity of about 6000 meters per second and comprises a core of 6 to 10 grams per meter of pentaerythritol tetranitrate (petn) covered with various combinations of materials, such as textiles, waterproofing materials, plastcs, etc. however, the magnitude of tbe noise produced when a cord having such petn core loadings is detonated on the surface of the earth, as in trun- lines, often is unacceptable in blasting operations in developed areas. also, the brisance (shattering power) of such a cord may be sufficiently high that the detonation impulse can be transmitted laterally to an adjacent section of the cord or to a mass of explosive which, for example, the cord contacts along its length. in the latter situation, the cord cannot be used to initiate an explosive charge in a borehole at the bottom (the "bottomhole priming" technique), as is sometimes desired. low-energy detonating cord (ledc) was developed to overcome the problems of noise and high brisance associated with the above-described 6-10 grams per meter cord. ledc has an explosive core loading of only about 0.02 to 2 grams per meter of cord length, and often only about 0.4 gram per meter. this cord is characterized by low brisance and the production of little noise, and therefore can be used as a trunkline in cases where noise has to be kept to a minimum, and as a downline for the bottom hole priming of an explosive charge. until recently, most ledc described in the art had a continuous core of a granular cap-sensitive high explosive such as petn heavily confined in a metal sheath or one or more woven textile sheaths. an improved ledc which is light-weight, flexible, stro, and non-conductive, detonates at high velocity, and is readily adapted to high-speed- continuous manufacturing techniques is described in belgian patent 863,290, granted july 25, 1978, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. this improved cord has a continuous solid core of a deformable bonded detonating explosive composition comprising a crystalline high explosive compound adnixed with a ding aeet, and a protective plastic sheath enclosing the core, no metal or woven textile layers being present around the coe or sheath. preferably, one or more continuous strands of reinforcing yarn, e.g., running substantially parallel to the core's longitudinal axis, are present outside the core.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
   claia,5s:-      1. a non-electric delay detonator adapted to be actuated by a low-energy detonating cord and comprising a first tubular metal shell (1) integrally closed at one end, said first shell containing, in sequence from the closed end:  (a) a base charge (2) of a detonating  explosive composition;  (b) a priming charge (3) of a heat sensitive  detonating explosive composition;  (c) a delay charge (5) of an exothermic  burning composition;  (d) a tubular rigid metal capsule (6) nested  within said first shell and having one  open extremity (7) and a closure at the  other extremity (8) provided with an  axial orifice (9) therethrough, said  closure on said capsule being adjacent  to said delay charge or to a tubular  carrier containing said delay charge; ;  (e) a second tubular metal shell (10)  integrally closed at one end, said second  shell being deformable and positioned  coaxially within said first shell in a  manner such as to produce a spacing    between the side walls of said   second     shell and of said capsule, and between  the closed end of said second shell and  the closure on said capsule; and  (f) a percussion-sensitive ignition charge  (11) in the spacing between the side  walls of said second shell of said capsule,  and between the closed end of said second  shell and said closure on said capsule,  said ignition charge being in contact with  said delay charge by virtue of the orifice  in the closure on said capsule;  means  (12, 17) being provided for sealing off  said charges from the atmosphere and for  preventing the venting of gases resulting  from the burning of said ignition charge,  an open cavity (13) extending from one end  to the other of said second shell for  receiving a low-energy detonating cord  (21) adapted by its detonation to produce  a pressure pulse that causes the ignition  of said ignition charge, and said cavity  being provided with a cord-retention means  (14) for holding said cord coaxially therein.   2. a detonator as claimed in claim 1   wherl    a  delay charge carrier comprising a heavy-walled tube (4) of rigid material containing an axial core (5) of said delay charge is interposed between said priming charge (3) and the closed extremity (8) of said rigid metal capsule (6), said axial core being coaxial and in communication with the orifice (9) in the closure on said capsule to permit contact between said delay charge and said ignition charge.   3. a detonator as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein said cord-retention means is an open-ended sleeve (14) having cord-gripping means (15) associated therewith, said sleeve frictionally engaging the inside wall of said second shell (10) and extending from the open end of said second shell toward the center of said cavity   (13).      4. a detonator as claimed in claim 3 wherein said cord-gripping means comprises at least on inwardly directed prong (15) formed on the inner end of said sleeve.   5. a detonator as claimed in claim 3 or claim 4 wherein the inner end of said sleeve (14) lies in a plane normal to the axis thereof that also passes through said ignition charge (11), or, if not, is spaced from the plane in which the boundary (16) of said ignition charge lies by a distance no greater than about 5.5 millimeters.     6. a detonator as claimed in claim 5   wherein    the inner end of said sleeve (14) lies in a plane normal to the axis thereof that is spaced from the bottom of said second shell (10) by a distance no greater than about 8 millimeters.   7. a detonator as claimed in any one of claims 3 to 6 wherein said first sleeve (1) is made of metal and, at its outer end, is provided with a lip portion (18) that extends over the end of said second shell (10) or over a conforming lip portion on the end of said second shell.   8. a detonator as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein a deformable grommet (12) is sandwiched between said first and second shells (1, 10) starting from their open ends and extending approximately to the open extremity of said capsule (6), said shells and grommet being held together by one or more circumferential side crimps (19, 20).   9. a detonator as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein said ignition charge (11) is a pressed granular mixture comprising, by weight, at least about 86% red lead; from about 1 to 2.5% boron; and up'to about 11% lead azide, lead styphnate, or a mixture thereof.   10. a non-electric assembly for initiating a  blasting charge comprising a first tubular metal shell (1) integrally closed at one end, said first shell containing, in sequence from the closed end:  (a) a base charge (2) of a detonating  explosive composition;  (b) a priming charge (3) of a heat-sensitive  detonating explosive composition;  (c) a delay charge (5) of an exothermic  burning composition;  (d) a tubular rigid metal capsule (6) nested  within said first shell and having one  open extremity (7) and a closure at the  other extremity (8) provided with an  axial orifice (9) therethrough, the  closure on said capsule being adjacent to  said delay charge or to a tubular  carrier (4) containing said delay charge; ;  (e) a second tubular metal shell (10)  integrally closed   at mine    end, said second  shell being deformable and positioned  coaxially within said first shell in a  manner such as to produce a spacing  between the side walls of said second  shell and of said capsule, and between  the closed end of said second shell and  the closure on said capsule;   (f) a percussion-sensitive ignition   rharfe     (11) in the spacing between the side   w@l@@     of said second shell and of   sid      cq c.       and between the closed   end    of said second  shell and said closure on said   capsule.       said ignition charge being in   contact      ith     said delay charge by virtue of the orifice  in the closure of said capsule; meons  (12, 17) being provided for sealing off  said charges from the atmosphere and for  preventing the venting of gases resulting  from the burning of said ignition charge,  an open cavity (13) extending from one end  to the other of said second shell; (g) an end-section of a length of low-energy  detonating cord (21) in the cavity of  said second shell;   and (h) cord-retention means (15) in said cavity    for holding sa'ied cord in coaxial position     therein in a manner such that the plane  that passes through the end of the cord  within said cavity normal to the cord axis  also passes through said ignition charge  or if not, is spaced from the plane in  -which the boundary (16) of said ignition  charge lies by a distance no   greater        than about 2.5 millimeters.   11. an assembly as claimed in claim 10 wherein said detonating cord (21) has an explosive core loading of from about 0.2 to 1 gram per meter of length.   12. an assembly as claimed in claim 10 or claim 11 wherein said low-energy detonating cord comprises a continuous solid cord (22) of a deformable bonded detonating explosive composition comprising a crystalline high explosive compound admixed with a binding agent, and a protective plastic sheath (24) enclosing said core.   13. an assembly as claimed in any one of claims 10 to 12 wherein said cord-retention means (15) holds said cord (21) in a manner such that the plane that passes through the end of the cord also passes through said ignition charge (11).   14. an assembly as claimed in claim 13 wherein the end of said cord (21) is seated against the closed end of said second shell (10).   15. a non-electric assembly for initiating a blasting charge comprising a detonator as claimed in any one of claims 2 to 9 wherein an end-section of   a    low-energy detonating cord (21) is located in the cavity (13) of the second shell (10) so that the end section of said cord is positioned close enough to the ignition charge (11) to ensure actuation of the ignition charge by outward  expansion of said second shell produced   bx    detonation   c-f    said cord.   16. a non-electric delay detonator adapted to be actuated by a low-energy detonating cord, said detonator including a body (1) containing a base charge (2) and a priming charge (3) in close proximity thereto and an ignition charge (11) communicating with the priming charge via a delay charge (5), said detonator body housing an expansion shell (10) which has an opening for admitting a free end of a low-energy detonating cord (21), the ignition charge being present in an annular space between the expansion shell and the detonator body and the expansion shell including cord-receiving means (14) which is positioned with respect to the ignition charge in said annular space so as to assure actuation of the ignition charge whether or not the cord is shoved to the bottom of the expansion shell or not.    17. a non-electric delay detonator substantially as described with reference to fig. 1 of the accompanying drawings.   18. a non-electric assembly-for initiating a blasting charge substantially as described with reference to fig. 2 of the accompanying drawings.   19. the use of a non-electric detonator as claimed in claim 16 for initiating a blasting   charge.     
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
