<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0012608
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800625
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
H04R-7/00 H04R-7/24 H04R-9/00 H04R-9/04 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
isodynamic electromagnetic acoustic transducer with stressed diaphragm.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
rank organisation ltd gb<sep>the rank organisation limited<sep>the rank organisation limited11 hill streetlondon w1x 8aegb<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
millward gareth petergb<sep>millward, gareth peter<sep>millward, gareth peter17 birkdale drivealwoodley, leeds 17gb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
an electromagnetic acoustic transducer having a sub­ stantially "flat" diaphragm bears a spiral or meandering cur­ rent conductor.  the diaphragm is positioned adjacent one or  more fixed permanent magnets (12, 18) which create a mag­ netic field orthogonal to the current path of the conductor  such that the vector force is perpendicular to the plane of the  diaphragm.  the diaphragm (13) is stressed to form a bowed  shape permitting damping elements to be provided without  deleteriously affecting the resonance of the transducer.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
isodynamic electromagnetic acoustic transducer with stressed diaphragm the present invention relates to electromagnetic acoustic transducers, and particularly to such transducers of the type suitable for use in headphones or in loudspeakers. electromagnetic acoustic transducers of the general type to which the invention relates have a substantially flat diaphragm having fixed to at least one face thereof an elongate electric current conductor in a spiral or meandering configuration, at least one fixed permanent magnet adjacent to but spaced from the diaphragm on at least one side thereof, the magnet presenting a plurality of magnetic poles arranged so as to produce a magnetic field substantially orthogonal to the majority of the current paths of the conductor such that the interaction between the magnetic field produced thereby and a current flowing through the conductor portions produces a force thereon, and therefore on the diaphragm, substantially normal to the general plane of the diaphragm. instead of a single magnet with a multiple pole magnetisation, a plurality of magnets, suitably supported may be employed. this construction is particularly suitable for the manufacture of transducers for headphones or for loudspeakers in the form of the so-called "flat" loudspeakers. as used in this specification the term "flat" loudspeaker will be understood to refer to the external shape of the transducer, the thickness of which is considerably less than the height or width. typically, but not exclusively, the thickness of a flat loudspeaker is less than 20% of the next smallest dimension, which is usually the width. in transducer constructions of the type defined above, if the diaphragm has a spiral conductor configuration the magnetic poles defined by the magnet or magnets are substantially concentric circular poles, whereas for a meandering conductor (in which usually the majority of the length of the conductor is formed as straight parallel conductor portions) the magnet or magnets are formed to provide a plurality of straight parallel poles. although constructions employing a magnet or magnet system on any one side of the diaphragm can be employed, greater efficiency is obtained by using a magnet or magnet system on both sides of the diaphragm, and it is clearly an advantage for the magnet or magnet system to be positioned as closely as possible to the diaphragm in order to obtain the strongest magnetic field for interaction with the current flowing in the conductor on the diaphragm; particularly for use in headphones it is desirable, in order to minimise the weight of the transducer and the amount of material used in the magnets, to use the smallest magnets possible for this purpose. however, the smaller the magnets the weaker the magnetic field and the less efficient the transducer, and therefore, the nearer the diaphragm must be positioned to the magnets. the proximity of the magnets to the diaphragm, however, is limited by the maximum excursions which the diaphragm will make during operation since it is essential that the diaphragm should never actually contact the magnets during use because this would give rise to undesirable
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:   1. an electromagnetic acoustic transducer incorporating a diaphragm having fixed to at least one face thereof an elongate electric current conductor in a spiral or meandering configuration, one or more fixed permanent magnets adjacent to but spaced from the diaphragm on each side thereof, the magnet or magnets presenting a plurality of elongate magnetic poles lying in parallel planes and being positioned so as to produce a magnetic field orthogonal or substantially orthogonal to the current path of the said elongate electric current conductor such that the interaction between the magnetic field and a current flowing through the said elongate electric current conductor produces a force on the diaphragm substantially normal to the said parallel planes defined by the magnetic poles, in which the diaphragm is stressed to a bowed shape between the said magnets.   2. an electromagnetic acoustic transducer as claimed in claim 1, in which the diaphragm is clamped at its periphery and stressed to a bowed shape by contact with a resilient buffer and support member against at least the central portion on the concave face thereof.   3. an electromagnetic acoustic transducer as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, in which the periphery of the diaphragm is reinforced by a peripheral diaphragm support laminated thereto on at least one face thereof.     4. an electromagnetic acoustic transducer as claimed in claim 3, in which there is a peripheral diaphragm support laminated to each face of the diaphragm at the periphery thereof.   5. an electromagnetic acoustic transducer as claimed in any preceding claim, in which the magnet or magnets on each side of the diaphragm is or are supported on a backing plate and the backing plates are spaced a predetermined distance apart by a rigid peripheral support frame, the periphery of the diaphragm being clamped between resilient peripheral diaphragm support members compressed between the backing plates, the combined thickness of which resilient peripheral diaphragm support members is greater than the thickness of the rigid peripheral support frame.   6. an electromagnetic acoustic transducer as claimed in claim 5., in which the resilient peripheral diaphragm support members are made of a foam material.   7. an electromagnetic acoustic transducer as claimed in claim 6, in which the resilient peripheral diaphragm support members are made of a closed cell foam material0 8. an electromagnetic acoustic transducer as claimed in any of claims 2 to 7, in which the central resilient buffer and support member in contact with at least the central region of the diaphragm is made of a polyurethane foam material.     9. an electromagnetic acoustic transducer as claimed in any of claims 5 to 8, in which there is further provided at least one spacer ring between the rigid peripheral support frame and one of the said backing plates.   10. an electromagnetic acoustic transducer as claimed in any of claims 3 to 9, in which the diaphragm is pretensioned in at least one direction before lamination to the reinforcing peripheral diaphragm support.   11. an electromagnetic acoustic transducer as claimed in claim 10, in which the diaphragm is pretensioned equally in all directions prior to lamination to the reinforcing peripheral diaphragm support.   12. an electromagnetic acoustic transducer as claimed in any of claims 5 to 11, in which there are openings in both backing plates permitting radiation from both faces of the diaphragm.   13. an electromagnetic acoustic transducer as claimed in any preceding claim, in which the magnet or magnets on at least one side of the diaphragm cover an area less than the free unsupported area of the diaphragm itself.   14. an electromagnetic acoustic transducer -as claimed in any preceding claim, in which there is provided a further resilient buffer element between the diaphragm  and the magnets on the convex side of the diaphragm in contact with at least the central region of the diaphragm.    15. an electromagnetic acoustic transducer as claimed in claim 14, in which the said further resilient buffer element is in contact with the diaphragm over substantially the whole of the free unsupported area thereof.   16. an electromagnetic acoustic transducer as claimed in any preceding claim, in which the diaphragm is substantially circular.   17. an electromagnetic acoustic transducer as claimed in any of claims 1 to 15, in which the diaphragm is substantially elliptical.   18. an electromagnetic acoustic transducer as claimed in claim 17, in which the tension in the diaphragm is different in different directions.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
