<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0010448
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800430
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
A47J-31/40 G07F-13/06 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
improvements in and relating to vending machines
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
vgl ind ltdgb<sep>vgl industries limited<sep>vgl industries limitedpiper house, 253/7 burlington roadnew malden, surrey kt3 4nqgb  <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
gosden julian kennethgb<sep>gosden, julian kenneth<sep>gosden, julian kenneth13 ashtead commonashtead surreygb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
the invention relates to a means for indicating the presence of ingredients to be dispensed in a vending machine and provides in a typical example a light source such as light emitting diode 22 and a sensor such as a phototransistor 23 which together define a light path 25 across the neck portion 34 to a suitable ingredient container 31.  the ingredient container is secured to a dispensing nozzle assembly comprising a sleeve 44 carrying a dispensing nozzle 41 and an inner valve block 50 incorporating a valve member 60, the arrangement being such on the ingredient level falling below the light path 25 the incident light falling upon sensor 23 is increased thereby providing an indication that the ingredients are "sold out".  in a particular embodiment of the invention the light source is an infra red emitter which may be presented using a micro processor unit thereby inducing a level of the emitter. 
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
description this invention relates to vending machines and has particular reference to an indicator for indicating the availability of ingredients in such a machine. vending machines, and particularly beverage vending machines typically include a number of containers, each of which contains a beverage forming/ingredient in a powder1 particulate or syrup form. thus, for example, a succession of containers may contain respectively tea, coffee, sugar, cream, chocolate and cocoa in powdered form and when a beverage is required the user operates the machine which dispenses into a cup, a measured charge of the required ingredient for example, coffee powder, sugar and cream, and then adds hot water to this powder mixture. the powdered ingredients are usually contained in plastics containers which are inverted in the vending machine and attached at their neck to a dispensing valve assembly. our copending application no. 50976/76 cognate with application no. 13851/77 describes and claims a disposable container dispenser assembly for a vending machine characterised by a container body adapted to contain ingredients to be dispensed and valve means to control the dispensing of said ingredients whereby the valve means is captive with the container body so that the assembly can be removed from its operative location in a machine for disposal as a single unit. this has the advantage that the valve and ingredient container are effectively a single piece unit and ingredients are effectively sealed. these containers, when filled with ingredients together with their associated valve assembly are adapted to be inverted with a dispensing neck disposed downwardly and supported in a holder so that on operation of the dispensing vavle assembly the ingredients are dispensed downwardly. such a vending machine will be referred to hereinafter as "a vending machine of the kind described". according to the present invention, there is provided a vending machine of the kind described comprising a holder for supporting a container of ingredients for the dispensing thereof, valve actuator means carried by said holder and juxtaposed the container valve means for actuation thereof in response to a dispense signal, a light source carried by said holder upwardly of said valve actuating means, a photoelectric cell carried by said holder and adapted to receive light from said cell to define a light path adapted to be obturated by the ingredients of the container whereby when the container is substantially empty, the intensity of the light from the light source impinging on the photoelectric cell increased to indicate that all of the ingredient has been dispensed. in one embodiment of the present invention, the infra red emitter may be pulsed using an m.p.u clock. this extends the life of the emitters in a typical example a 10 m second pulse is applied to a diode in the emitter circuit to pulse the emitter. in a further embodiment of the present invention, the microprocesser unit may incorporate clock means capable of generating an output and receiving an input in response thereto, said output being applied to a diode for pulsing said embitter,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:   1. a vending machine of the kind described comprising a holder for supporting a container of ingredients to be dispensed, valve actuator means carried by said holder and juxtaposed the container valve means for actuation thereof in response to a dispense signal, a light source carried by the holder upwardly of said valve actuating means, a photoelectric cell carried by said holder and adapted to receive light from said cell to define a light path adapted to be obturated by ingredients of the container whereby   when    the container is substantially empty, the intensity of the light from the light surface impinging on the photoelectric cell increases to indicate that all the ingredient has been dispensed.   2.   h    vending machine as claimed in claim 1 wherein the output of said light source is continuous.   3. a vending machine as claimed in claim 1 wherein the output from said light source is pulsed to provide pulses of light at periodic intervals.   4. a machine as claimed in any one of the preceding claims when the light source is a light emitting diode and the photoelectric cell is a phototransistor.   5. a machine as claimed in the preceding claim wherein the light emitting diode is an infra red emitter which is pulsed using a microprocessor unit.        6;    a machine as claimed in claim 5 wherein the pulse is a ten to twenty micro second pulse applied to a   diod -    in the emitter circuit in order to pulse the emitter.      7.    a machine as claimed in claim 5 or claim 6 wherein the microprocessor unit may incorporate clock means capable of generating output and receiving input in response thereto, said output being applied to a diode before pulsing the emitter and the detector serving to prime a trigger circuit depending on the detector state.   8.   h    machine as claimed in any preceding claim wherein a proportion of the container released in the light path is translucent or transparent.   9. a machine as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the ingredients are opaque and the phototransistor is connected to a c-mos gate.   10. a machine as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 8 wherein the ingredients are translucent and the phototransistor is connected to a reference circuit to effect the change of voltage therein thus indicating a variation of the light intensity impinging upon said phototransistor.   11. a machine as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the holder may comprise a solenized juxtaposed the valve member having upwardly thereof a sleeve the upper portion of which is chamfered to abut the neck of the container to   support    the container in its operative configuration.     12.   h    machine as claimed in claim 11 wherein the upwardly extending sleeve is provided with a light emitting diode in one wall adapted to direct a beam of light across the sleeve on to a diametrically opposite wall portion thereof which diametrically opposite wall portion contains a photo-transistor, thereby defining a light path across the sleeve.    13. a machine as claimed in claim 12 wherein the container   is sipported    such that the contents rest against the valve assembly preparatory for dispensing from the dispensing nozzle, and a voltage sensing circuit so that as the level of ingredients falls below the access of the light path the intensity of the light impinging upon the phototransistor increases to produce a voltage change which is sensed by the said voltage sensing circuit.   14. a vending machine as claimed in claim 1 and substantially as hereindescribed with reference to and as illustrated in figures 1, 2, 3 4 and 5 of the accompanying drawings.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
