<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0014279
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800820
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
F24D-3/10 F24D-3/08 F24D-3/00 <main>F24D-3/08</main> 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
self-priming devices for indirect domestic water heating systems and the use of such devices.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
fleming fab ltd  <sep>fleming fabrications limited<sep>fleming fabrications limited57 wellshot roadglasgow g32 7xj scotlandgb<sep>fleming fabrications limited <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
carruthers thomas robison<sep>carruthers, thomas robison<sep>carruthers, thomas robison53 ormonde avenueglasgow scotlandgb<sep>carruthers, thomas robison <sep>carruthers, thomas robison53 ormonde avenueglasgow scotlandgb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
self-priming devices for indirect domestic water heating  systems which have a primary heating circuit including a heat  exchanger (20) which heats domestic water in a secondary  circuit, both circuits being fed with cold water from a common  source.  the self-priming device (1) has axially disposed upper  and lower chambers, the upper chamber (4) being connected  in the secondary circuit and the lower chamber (5) being  connected in the primary circuit.  the device acts as expansion  and contraction chambers for both circuits and isolates the  water in the primary circuit from the water in the secondary  circuit during operation of the system.  an auto vent valve (11)  is provided adjacent the bottom of the lower chamber (5) to  provide for inital filling of the primary circuit and for replenish­ ing the primary circuit from time to time through the secon­ dary circuit.  the volume of the lower chamber (5) is at least 4  to 4. 5% of the total water content of the primary circuit.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
t'self-priming devices for indirect domestic water heating systems" this invention relates to self-priming devices for indirect domestic water heating systems. kore specifically the invention provides for selfpriming devices which can be incorporated in existing domestic water heating systems to convert the system into an indirect water heating system which may or may not include a pumped or gravity fed central heating system. an indirect domestic water heating system is a system whereby domestic water in a storage cylinder is heated by means of a heat exchanger located in the storage cylinder. water in a primary heating circuit is heated in a boiler or the like and is passed through the heat exchanger, the heat exchanger transferring heat from the primary water to the secondary water without the primary and secondary waters mixing. the primary water may be in a central heating system and may be gravity fed or pumped. feed water for the primary and secondary circuits are supplied from a common source such as a storage tank but care must be taken to ensure that the primary water after it has entered the primary circuit does not enter and mix with the secondary water. the self-priming device of the present invention provides for isolating the circuits. the water in the primary circuit is separated from the water in the secondary circuit by a self-priming device according to the invention which acts as an expansion and contraction chamber for both circuits0 the self-priming device is connected externally of the domestic hot water cylinder to the heat exchanger inlet in a primary circuit and to a vent in a secondary circuit. it is known from our british patent specifications nos. 1,421,532 and 1,421,533 to provide a compensator device between the primary¯water circuit and the secondary water circuit to isolate the circuits from each other during operation of the heating system when cold water is supplied to both circuits from a common source. it has been found that the compensator devices of the prior specifications have the disadvantage that the lower chamber is filled with primary water during operation and during the initial heat up period the primary water in the lower chamber expands into the upper chamber and mixes with the secondary water in the upper chamber the self-priming device of the present invention provides for automatic venting of the primary circuit which obviates the disadvantage of the prior constructions and provides for a more efficient system. the self-priming device of te present invention has been designed to offer a method of timplifying the design and reducing the cost of indirect domestic water heating systems and also ensures that the primary and secondary waters are isolated from each other as heating and cooling occurs and ensures automatic topping up of the primary circuit should leakage or evaporation losses occur. a self-priming device for indirect domestic water heating system comprises a closed housing divided internally by a wall intermediate its ends to form axially disposed first and second chambers, an open ended
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
   clait3      1. a self-priming device for indirect domestic water heating systems comprising a closed housing divided internally by a wall intermediate its ends to form axially disposed first and second chamber, said first chamber being disposed below said second chamber when the device is in use, an open eroded   tubular > member    extending from said wall into the second chamber   with    its distal end adjacent the opposite end of the chamber to provide   communication    between the chambers,  an inlet   anci    an outlet at the end of the second chamber adjacent said wall and at least one opening at the end of the first chamber remote from said wall and when the device is in use said inlet and outlet being connectible to an outlet from a domestic hot water cylinder and to a vent to atmosphere respectively and the opening or openings in the first chamber being   connectlble    to a heat exchanger in a primary water heating circuit,  said heat exchanger being located in the domestic hot water cylinder characterised in that the volume of that portion (a-b) of the second chamber (4) between the inlet (7) and outlet (8) and the distal end of the tubular member (6) is substantially equal to the volume of the first chamber (5) and an autovent   (11)    is located adjacent the end of the first chamber (5) remote from the wall (3) for venting the first chamber   (5)    to atmosphere, said auto-vent being positioned to contact water in said first chamber and including means responsive to said water whereby when water is present in said first chamber the auto-vent is closed and when the auto-vent is exposed to air in the first   chamber    the autovent is open.   2. a device as claimed in   claims    1 characterised in that the first   chamber    (5) is   provide¯.    with one opening   (j      ir:    the end of the chamber remote   fro    the wall (3) for connection to a primary water heating circuit when the device is in use.   3. a device as claimed in claim 1 characterised in that the first chamber (5) is provided with two   openings      (3 & 39)    in the end of the chamber remote from the wall (3) which  are connectible to the flow (42) and eturn (41) of a heat   exchanger in a primary water circa b when the device is in    use.   4. a device as claimed in   an:    of the preceding claims characterised in that the   au=-vent    (11 or 40) includes a water absorbent diaphragm   (aha)    which closes the vent when wet and opens the vent   when    substantially dry and includes manually operable means   (12,p2a)    for opening and closing the vent, 5. a self-priming device as claimed in any of claims 1 to    3    characterised in that the auto-vent (11 or 40) comprises an automatic float air vent valve having a float member housed in a chamber to actuate a vent valve when water in the chamber (5) falls below a predetermined level.   6. a self-priming device as claimed in any of the preceding claims in an indirect domestic water heating system characterised by a primary   water    heating circuit comprising at least a water heating source   (15),    and a heat exchanger (20), a secondary water heating circuit including a hot water storage cylinder (21), and a header tank for supplying cold water to said system, the heat exchanger being located in said cylinder (21) to heat water therein by indirect heat exchange, a draw-off (24 or 37) for domestic hot water from the cylinder and a vent (26) to atmosphere, said self-priming device (1) being connected between the primary and secondary water circuit to keep the primary water separate from the secondary water when the system is in operation.      claims 1.   a.    self-priming device for indirect domestic water heating systems comprising a closed housing divided internally by a wall intermediate to its ends to form axially disposed first and second chambers, an open ended tubular member extending from said   wall. intro    the second chamber to adjacent the opposite end of the chamber to provide communication between the chambers, an inlet and an outlet at the end of the second chamber adjacent said wall and at least one.   opening at the end of the first chamber remote from said   wall    said inlet and outlet being so arranged as to be connectible to an outlet from a domestic hot water cylinder and to a vent to atmosphere and the opening or openings in the first chamber being connectible to a primary water heating circuit which includes a heat exchanger located in the domestic hot water cylinder, the volume of the first chamber being at least 4 to 4.5% of the volume of the water content of the primary circuit, the volume of the portion of the second chamber between the inlet and outlets and the end of the tubular member being substantially equal to the volume of the first chamber, and an auto vent device located adjacent the end of the first chamber remote from said wall.   2. a self-priming device as claimed in claim 1, in which the first chamber has one opening at the end of the chamber remote from the wall said opening being  connectible to the flow side of a primary water hefting  circuit.    3. a self-priming device as claimed in claim 2, in  which the vent valve includes a water absorbent diaphragm which closes the valve when wet and opens the valve when substantially dry.    4. a self-priming device as claimed in claim 3 wherein the vent valve is an auto-vent.   5.   h    self-priming device as claimed in any of the preceding claims in an indirect domestic water heating system having primary and secondary water heating circuits, said primary circuit including at least a water heating source and   2    heat exchanger, said secondary circuit including a hot water storage cylinder, a header tank for cold water for the cylinder, a draw off for domestic hot water from the cylinder and a vent to atmosphere, said heat exchanger being located in the cylinder to heat the domestic hot water and said self-priming device being connected between the primary and secondary circuits to keep the primary water separate from the secondary water when the primary water is heated.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
