<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0007811
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800206
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
A01G-25/00 A01G-25/09 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
an irrigation apparatus.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
wimpey lab ltdgb<sep>wimpey laboratories limited <sep>wimpey laboratories limitedbeaconsfield roadhayes, middlesex ub4 0ls gb  <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
harvey vernon bryan williamgb<sep>harvey, vernon bryan william<sep>harvey, vernon bryan william4 stour closelittle canford wimborne, dorsetgb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
an irrigation apparatus comprises a drive unit (c) which  moves and guides the apparatus along a water supply pipe (b)  having a plurality of hydrants (h) along its length.  the drive  unit (c) supports one end of a boom (f) the other end of which  is supported by a powered wheel unit (k) which causes the  boom to rotate about the drive unit (g).  the boom (f) carries  sprinklers (m) along its length and outwardly directed jets  (n,p) adjacent the wheel unit (k).  the sprinklers (m) and the  jets (n,p) are intermittently operated so that as the boom  rotates a substantially rectangular area is irrigated.  the drive  unit (c) has a hydrant coupling unit (a) and, after a given area  has been irrigated from one hydrant the coupling unit (a)  disconnects from the hydrant, the drive unit (c) moves the  apparatus to the next hydrant and the coupling unit automati­ cally couples thereto so that an adjacent area is irrigated.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
"an irrigation appartus" this invention relates to irrigation apparatus. according to one aspect of the present invention there is provided irrigation apparatus comprising: a drive unit for moving and guiding the apparatus along a liquid supply line; an elongate boom structure mounted at one end on the drive unit; support means for supporting the other end of the boom structure; drive means arranged to cause the boom structure to rotate about the drive unit; a plurality of liquid spray means disposed substantially along the length of the boom structure and arranged to receive a supply of liquid from the supply line via the drive unit; and control means for controlling the flow of liquid through the liquid spray means so that at least one spray means at or adjacent said other end of the boom structure is intermittently operated and, as the boom rotates, a substantially rectangular area is irrigated. in the preferred embodiment the drive means are disposed on the support means to drive at least one wheel thereof. preferably the spray means comprises a plurality of sprinklers disposed substantially along the length of the boom structure, each sprinkler irrigating a substantially circular area, and at least one jet at or adjacent said other end of the boom structure for projecting liquid outwardly from the said other end of the boom structure. the control means may be arranged to cause the boom structure to rotate through 0 substantially 90 with liquid passing through the sprinklers but not through. the jet or jets, to stop, and to cause liquid to pass through the jet nearest the said other end of the boom structure but not through the sprinklers. preferably the drive unit includes hydrant coupling means for coupling the spray means to one of a plurality of hydrants disposed along the supply line. the control means is, in the preferred embodiment, arranged so that, in operation, after irrigation of a given area from one hydrant, the drive means is caused to move the apparatus to the next hydrant and the coupling means to be connected thereto in order to irrigate an adjacent area. preferably the coupling means has at least one support wheel arranged to run on an upper surface of the supply line. the coupling means may include at least a pair of guide wheels between which the supply line is, in operation, engaged to urge the drive unit to follow the supply line. the invention is illustrated, merely by way of example, in the accompanying drawings, in which: figure 1 is a schematic illustration of one embodiment of an irrigation apparatus according to the present invention; figure 2 shows a typical arrangement of a water supply pipe for use with the irrigation apparatus of figure 1; figures 3 and ss illustrate the use of the irrigation apparatus of figure 1 to irrigate a substantially square area; figure 5 illustrates the use of the irrigation apparatus of figure 1 to irrigate a substantially rectangular area; figure 6 illustrates the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims   1. an irrigation apparatus characterised by comprising: a drive unit (c) for moving and guiding the apparatus along a liquid supply line (b); an elongate boom structure (f) mounted at one end on the drive unit; support means (k) for supporting the other end of the boom structure; drive means arranged to cause the boom structure to rotate about the drive unit; a plurality of liquid spray means   (m,n,p)    disposed substantially along the length of the boom structure and arranged to receive a supply of liquid from the supply line via the drive unit (c); and control means for controlling the flow of liquid through the liquid spray means so that at least one spray means (n,p) at or adjacent said other end of the boom structure is intermittently operated and, as the boom rotates, a substantially rectangular area is irrigated.   2. an apparatus as claimed in claim 1 characterised in that the drive means are disposed on the support means (k) to drive at least one wheel (l) thereof.   3. an apparatus as claimed in claim 1 or 2 characterised in that the spray means (m,n,p) comprises a plurality of sprinklers   (m)    disposed substantially along the   length    of the boom structure (f), each sprinkler irrigating a   substantially    circular area, and at least one jet   (i:,p)    at or adjacent said other end of the boom structure for projecting liquid outwardly from the said other end of the boom structure.   4. an apparatus as claimed in claim 3 characterised in that the control means is arranged to cause the boom structure (f) to rotate through substantially   900    with liquid passing through the sprinklers (m) but not through the jet or jets   (n,),    to  stop, and to cause liquid to pass through the jet nearest the said other end of the boom structure but not through the sprinklers.   5. an apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim characterised in that the drive unit (c) includes   hydrant    coupling means (a) for coupling the spray means (m,n,p) to one of a plurality of hydrants   (fas)    disposed along the supply line (b).       kn    apparatus as claimed in claim 5 characterised in that the control means is arranged so that, in operation, after irrigation of a given area from one hydrant (h), the drive means is caused to move the apparatus to the next hydrant and the coupling means (a) to be connected thereto in order to irrigate an adjacent area.   7. an apparatus as claimed in claim 5 or 5 characterised in that the coupling means has at least one support wheel (10) arranged to run on an upper surface of the supply line.   8. an apparatus as claimed in claim 7 characterised in that the coupling means (a) include at least a pair   tf    guide wheels (12) between which the supply line (8) is, in operation, engaged to urge the drive unit (c) to follow the supply line.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
