<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0005084
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19791031
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B21D-37/08 B21D-22/28 <main>B21D-22/28</main> 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
apparatus for drawing and ironing containers.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
nat can corpus<sep>national can corporation<sep>american national can company8770 west bryn mawr avenuechicago illinois 60631us<sep>national can corporation<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
maeder edward g<sep>maeder, edward g.<sep>maeder, edward g.2455 byrnes roadminnetonka minnesota 55343us<sep>maeder, edward g.<sep>maeder, edward g.2455 byrnes roadminnetonka minnesota 55343us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a drawing and ironing machine consists of a redraw  assembly, at least one ironing assembly and a stripper  assembly arranged in series and each having a ring having a  opening to define a path for a punch.  a cup holder sleeve (20)  cooperates with the redraw assembly (26) to hold a cup (12)  while it is forced through the redraw assembly (26) by the  punch (24) which also cooperates with a domer assembly at  the end of its path to reshape the end wall of the cup (12).   each of the rings (26, 232, 300, 310) are spring biased to a  centered position by circumferentially spaced spring  assemblies (70, 244) that accommodate radial movement of  the ring with respect to the path.  the cup holder sleeve (20) is  also movable radially of the path and tiltable axially of the  path while the domer assembly has a domer element which  is also spring biased to a centered position.  the various  assemblies also have surfaces that cooperate with a surface  on the frame that accommodate radial movement and have a  fluid supplied thereto to reduce friction between the surfaces.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
apparatus for drawing and ironing containers description technical field the present invention relates generally to can making machines and more specifically to an improved floating arrangement for various components of a drawing and ironing machine. in the formation of a "two-piece" container, it has been customary to utilize a plurality of die assemblies that cooperate with a punch for converting circular metal discs into finished containers which have a sidewall and an integral end wall. one of these processes consists of originally drawing a circular metal disc into a cup utilizing what is commonly referred to as a cupping machine. the cup is then transferred to a bodymaker wherein the cup is converted into the finished container. in one process, which is being used commercially, the preformed cup is first redrawn to a smaller diameter and larger height and then is substantially simultaneously converted to an ironed container wherein the sidewall thickness is reduced in one or more steps. one type of such commercial machine is produced by ragsdale bros., inc. and is identified as a model ce-24 canwall drawing and ironing press. normally the material for such containers is either aluminum or tinplate. in such a process, a punch normally cooperates with a plurality of ironing dies and the stroke of the punch is fairly long in order to produce conventional 12 and 16 ounce containers. the length of the stroke of the punch for the bodymaker or press has heretofore created substantial problems in producing a satisfactory container which has a uniform wall thickness in the sidewall thereof. one of the problems encountered has been in maintaining all of the elements in very accurate alignment with respect to each other in order to produce a finished container which has a uniform wall thickness around the entire perimeter thereof and also the entire length thereof. background prior art in order to alleviate some of the problems in maintaining accurate alignment between the various dies and the punch, several proposals for producing floating ironing dies have been proposed. for example, british patent no. 724,251 published february 16, 1955 discloses a method of supporting ironing dies that will accommodate movement of the dies with respect to the punch but will also provide a self-centering feature which theoretically will reposition the die to a predetermined position whenever all external forces have been removed. the particular arrangement for accomplishing the self-centering and floating feature in the assembly disclosed in the british patent consists of cooperating inclined surfaces between the ironing die and its support mechanism with a biasing mechanism which will automatically center the ironing dies with respect to a predetermined axis whenever external forces are removed. the biasing mechanism in this patent has been illustrated as either consisting of an elastomeric member or rubber ring which produces a centering action between an ironing die and a cooperating support. alternatively, the centering means in the disclosed patent also shows the use of springs that cooperate with the ironing die and the support to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:    1. in a drawing and ironing machine including a frame (30) having a redraw die assembly (26), at least one ironing assembly (28), and a stripper assembly (32) arranged in series and each having an opening to define a path with a punch (24) movable along said path through said openings, at least one of said assemblies including a ring (230,   300, a12)    defining said opening and centering means between said frame and said ring, characterized by said centering means including a plurality of circumferentially spaced biasing means (230, 240, 330) producing radial forces on said ring at circumferentially spaced locations, each of said biasing means having a first position when said ring is in a centered position,  at least some and less than all of said biasing means moving from said first position to accommodate radial movement of said ring with respect to said path.    2. a drawing and ironing machine as defined in claim 1, in which said ring is an ironing ring (300) carried by a support (304, 312).    3. a drawing and ironing machine as defined in claim 1, in which said ring is a stripper ring (412) carried by a support (410) and having a plurality of stripping jaws (416) pivoted thereon.    4. a drawing and ironing machine as defined in claim 1, in which said ring is a redraw ring (230) carried by a support (410).    5. a drawing and ironing machine as defined in any one of claims 2-4, in which said support and said frame have cooperating surfaces (236, 238, 326, 328, 436, 438) extending radially of said path further  characterized by means (260, 346, 348) for introducing a fluid between at least one pair of cooperating surfaces.    6. a drawing and ironing machine as defined in any one of claims 1-5, and including a domer assembly spaced from said stripper assembly, further characterized by said domer assembly including a support (530) having a recess (532) with the base of the recess defining a support surface (540), a carrier element (542) received in said recess and having a cooperating surface (548), a domer element (550) on said carrier element, means (580, 582) for supplying a bearing fluid between said surfaces, and biasing means (560) between said support and carrier element normally maintaining said surfaces in a predetermined position with respect to each other and accommodating movement of said carrier element in all directions within said recess.    7. a drawing and ironing machine as defined in any one of claims 1-6 and including a cup holder sleeve (20) interposed between said punch and said redraw die assembly and having an axial bore (22) for receiving said punch and a sleeve support for said cup holder sleeve, characterized by said sleeve support including a first member (60) having an opening (40) therein aligned with said opening in said redraw assembly and having a circumferential recess (52) extending from the periphery thereof, a movable support element (60) having a peripheral portion (62) received in said recess and cooperating with one end of said cup holder sleeve,  and biasing means (70) between said first member and said support element normally maintaining said support element centered with respect to  said opening in said first member and accommodating radial movement of said one end of said cup holder sleeve and said support element with respect to said first member.    8. a drawing and ironing machine as defined in claim 7, further characterized by additional means (90, 92, 102-108) between said support element and said cup holder sleeve accommodating tilting of said axis of said bore with respect to said path.     9. a drawing and ironing assembly as defined in claim 8, further characterized by said additional means including confronting arcuate surfaces (90, 92) between said support element and said cup holder sleeve with at least one of said surfaces having a continuous recess (120) therein and lubricating means (110, 112, 122) for supplying lubricant to said recess.    10. a drawing and ironing machine as defined in any one of claims 1-9, characterized by said biasing means (230, 240, 330) including four circumferentially spaced spring assemblies each including a plunger having a shoulder with a spring normally biasing said shoulder into engagement with a stop defining said centered position.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
