<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0015659
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800917
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
A61C-5/02 A61C-19/00 A61C-19/06 F21V-15/04 A61B-1/06 <main>A61C-1/08</main> A61C-1/08 F21V-19/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
dental instrument or adapter therefor having a lamp assembly suspension including vibration and thermal isolation means.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
syntex incus  <sep>syntex (u.s.a.) inc.<sep>syntex (u.s.a.) inc.3401 hillview avenuepalo alto california 94303us<sep>syntex (u.s.a.) inc.<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
kelly leonard j<sep>knopp arthur a<sep>kelly, leonard j.<sep>knopp, arthur a.<sep>kelly, leonard j.717 buttonwoodnorristown pennsylvania 19401us<sep>knopp, arthur a.501 upper stump roadchalfont pennsylvania 18914us<sep>kelly, leonard j.  <sep>knopp, arthur a.<sep>kelly, leonard j.717 buttonwoodnorristown pennsylvania 19401us<sep>knopp, arthur a.501 upper stump roadchalfont pennsylvania 18914us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a dental instrument is disclosed having a light source  assembly suspension which includes resilient means, such  as two opposed coil springs (92, 94), supporting the lamp  assembly (42, 44, 48) between fixed parts (60, 66) of the  instrument housing, while at the same time reducing vibra­ tion that may be transmitted from the instrument to the  light source assembly.  the resilient means also reduces  heat loss from the light source assembly to the dental ins­ trument so that shorter filament warm-up time is provided.   the light source assembly suspension is particularly use­ ful in a dental handpiece in which the frequency of vibra­ tion of the gas-driven motor may coincide with one of the  harmonic frequencies of vibration of the lamp filament of  filament support.  a light source adapter for a dental ins­ trument typically comprises the light source mounting  means (42, 44, 48) suspended by opposed coil springs  (92, 94) between rigidly interconnected supports (60, 66).  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
dental instrument or adapter therefor having a lamp assembly suspension including vibration and thermal isolation means dental instruments equipped with light sources are well-known. of particular interest herein are dental handpieces and other instruments of a type in which a heat-producing, vibration-sensitive light source is isolated from other portions of the dental instrument. illumination of a region surrounding the working end of a dental instrument by means of a light source attached directly to the instrument is of significant advantage over the older arrangement.of a remotely positioned high-intensity lamp used in combination with a hand-held mirror. in u.s. patent no. 3,614,414 to gores there is described a dental handpiece having a light source within a casing attached to an exterior, rearward end portion of the handpiece. light is transmitted from the rearward end to the forward or working end of the handpice by light-guiding means comprising a pair of fiber optic bundles attached along the outside of the handpiece. a disadvantage of a light source and light guide attached to the outside of a dental instrument arises from improper instrument balance so that good tactile control may be difficult to maintain. also, positioning of the light source along the exterior of the instrument increases the likelihood of contact of a hot portion of the light source casing with the instrument user or with the delicate tissues of a patient's face or mouth. one attempt at solving the problem of heat generated by a light source mounted on a gas-driven dental handpiece is described in u.s. patent no. 3,634,938 to hutchinson wherein both the compressed air for driving the motor and a stream of water for cooling the operating area are used to cool the light source. this is accomp lished by providing a bulky assembly of a cooling coil around the lamp and an air chamber around the lamp and cooling coil through which compressed air passes. the bulky assembly may, however, constitute an impairment to proper tactile control of the instrument by the user. moreover, cooling a lamp with compressed air may be detrimental to certain types of lamps, especially tungsten-halogen type lamps which must operate at high temperatures for proper efficiency. a problem especially peculiar to dental handpieces having rotatably driven cutting tools is the vibration generated by the rotating tool and its driving mechanism, such as a high-speed gas-driven motor which typically drives a rotating tool at speeds of 250,000 to 450,000 r.p.m. the vibration transmitted through the handpiece to a bulb mounted on the handpiece may shorten the workinc life of the lamp filament. moreover, as a highspeed gas-driven motor attains working speed, there typically occurs a "critical frequency" or a speed of rotation of the motor shaft-and-work tool combination which is at or near the natural frequency of vibration of the lamp filament. resonant vibration of a lamp filament with the gas-driven motor at the lamp filament critical frequency may quickly destroy a lamp filament. also, filament-destroying vibrations may be generated during ordinary use of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims:    1. a dental instrument in which light guiding means  transmits light from a light source carried by the  instrument to the working end of the instrument;  characterised in that the instrument comprises (a)  housing means   (40,122);    (b) light guiding means (106,142)  having a first terminus   (108,144)    associated with said  housinq means and a second terminus for directing light  externally of said housing means;  (c) light source  mounting means (42,44,48) within said housing means for  holding a light source (96) in close proximity to said  first terminus of said light guiding means, said mounting  means having means for making electrical connection to  power source connecting means (76,78); and (d) support  means within said housing means for supporting said light  source mounting means, said support means comprising  resilient means (92,94) having properties of resilience  and low mass relative to the mass of said mounting means  (42,44,48) so that transfer of heat and/or mechanical  vibration between said housing means and said light  source mounting means through said support means is  substantially inhibited during use of said dental  instrument.   2. the dental instrument of claim 1 further including work tool connecting means (36) on one end of said instrument.   3. the dental instrument df claim 2 further including means (24) for providing work-producing motion to said work tool connecting   means.(36).      4. the dental instrument of claim 3 wherein said means (24) for providing work-producing motion is a gas-driven motor.     5. the dental instrument of any one of the preceding claims wherein said support means comprises first and second resilient means (92,94) disposed in substantially opposed spaced relationship between said light source mounting means (42,44,48) and opposed portions of said housing in contact therewith.   6. a dental instrument in the form of a handpiece, in which light guiding means transmits light from a light source carried by the instrument to the working end of the instrument; characterised in that the instrument comprises  a handle portion (12) having a proximal end and a distal end;  a head portion (20) connected to said handle portion distal end, said head portion including a gasdriven motor (24) capable of rotatably driving a work tool (112);  housing means (40) associated with said handle portion;   light source support means   within    said housing means, said light source support means comprising light source mounting means (42,44,48), first resilient connecting means (92) and second resilient connecting means (94), each of said first and second resilient connecting means connected between said light source mounting means and portions of said housing means;  means (102) for electrically connecting said light source support means to electric power source connecting means;  and  light guiding means (106) having a first terminus (108) adjacent said light source support means and having a second terminus   (110)    adjacent said distal end to direct light from a light source to the vicinity of a work tool, when said light source support means includes an operating  light source and said gas-driven motor has operably associated therewith a work tool.   7. a dental instrument acc-ording to any one of the preceding claims including connecting means providing both mechanical support for said light source mounting means (42,44,48) within said housing means and electrical connection of said light source mounting means to electric power source connecting means, said connecting means comprising electrically conductive first resilient means (92) connected between said light source mounting means and said housing means and electrically conductive second resilient means (94) connected between said light source mounting means and said housing means, said first and second resilient means connected to spaced-apart portions of said light source mounting means.   8. the dental instrument of any one of claims 5, 6 and 7 wherein each of said first and second resilient means (92,94) comprises a coil spring.   9. the dental instrument of claim 8 further including a light source (96) comprising a filament-type lamp operably mounted in said light source mounting means, said light source mounting means and said coil springs comprising an assembly, said assembly having properties of mass and thermal capacity within the bounds approximately defined by the following expression:  dt =   dqelec      -      dqr      -      dqc      - dqk     mc =  dt dt dt dt dt wherein  m = mass of said assembly;  c = heat capacity of said assembly;  dt  dt = instantaneous rate of temperature change of  said assembly;    dqelec = rate of heat produced by said light source;  dt  dqr = rate of heat lost by radiation from said  dt light source;   dqk = rate of heat lost by conduction from    dt light    source through said coil springs;     dqc  = rate of heat lost by convection from said       dt light    source to the atmosphere surrounding  said light source.      1o.    the dental instrument of claim 8 wherein  said housing means further includes first socket means (62) for supportably receiving one end of said first coil spring (92) and second socket means (72) for supportably receiving one end of said second coil spring (94), said first and second sockets affixed to said housing means in facing relationship to each other;   said light source mounting means comprises an electrically conductive, elongated sleeve (42) having an axis which intersects each of said first and second socket means, said sleeve having an electrically non-conductive plug (44) frictionally engaged within one end of said sleeve, said sleeve having at its other end an annularshaped boss portion (56) extending in an axial direction, said plug including an electrically conductive boss portion (50) isolated from said sleeve, said boss portion projecting in an axial direction;  each of said first and second coil springs (92,94) being fabricated of an electrically conductive material;   wherein said first coil spring (92) has one end engaged with said sleeve boss portion (56) and its other end positioned within said first socket means (62), and wherein said second coil spring (94) has one end engaged with said plug boss portion (50) and has its other end positioned within said second socket means (72).        11. the dental instrument of claim 8 including a gas    driven motor (24), said light source (96), aid light source mounting means (42,44,48) and one of said coil springs comprising an assembly, said assembly having a mass, m, and said coil spring having a spring force constant, k, so that the natural frequency of vibration of the assembly,   w ,    wherein emi23.1        <tb> wn <tb> 2 <tb> r <sep> , <sep> less <tb> r <sep> , <sep> less <tb>  provides a vibration attenuation ratio, than about   o.1    wherein emi23.2       with   x    equal to the angular frequency of the gas-driven moth   12.    a light source adapter for a dental instrument, said adapter comprising:  first rigid support means (60);   second rigid support means (66) spaced apart and rigidly connected with said first rigid support means;  light source mounting means (42,44,48) suspended between said first and second rigid support means;  first resilient suspension means (92) connected between said first rigid support means (60) and said light source mounting means;  second resilient suspension means (94) connected between said second rigid support means (66) and said light source mounting means;   said first and. second resilient   sl}s?nsion    means (92,94) having properties of resilience and low mass relative to the mass of said mounting means   42,44,48)    so that transfer of heat and/or mechanical vibration between said rigid support means and said light source mounting means through said suspension means is substantially inhibited during use of said dental instrument.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
