<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0014465
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800820
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
G02B-26/12 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
light curtain generating apparatus incorporating a cycle scale.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
sick optik elektronik erwinde<sep>erwin sick gmbh optik-elektronik <sep>erwin sick gmbh optik-elektroniksebastian-kneipp-strasse 1d-79183 waldkirchde   <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
sick erwinde<sep>sick, erwin<sep>sick, erwinstifterweg 6d-8021 ickingde<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
light curtain generating apparatus incorporating a  cyclical scale features a light source (19) for directing a beam  of light to a mirror wheel (22) located substantially at the focus  of a strip-like concave mirror (23) and which is adapted to  deflect the beam through a variety of angles into the concave  mirror to generate a moving scanning beam traversing the  image space of the concave mirror and forming said light  curtain.  a beam divider (27) is arranged to intercept the  scanning beam and to divide off and direct a part of the  scanning beam to a cyclical scale generator (14) which  features a light conducting rod (11) with a photoelectric  detector (12) at at least one end thereof and a cycle scale (14)  which extends substantially parallel to the light conducting  rod and which modulates the light fraction passed from the  divided off part of the scanning beam to the photoelectric  detector to modulate the output signal therefrom.  the cycle  scale can conveniently comprise a bar pattern placed in front  of the light conducting rod or a series of spaced apart inclined  mirrors (16) at the rear side surface of the light conducting rod.  in an alternative embodiment the light conducting rod is  replaced with a number of diodes.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
the invention relates to light curtain generating apparatus incorporating a cyclical scale *generator, light curtain generating apparatus is customarily used to direct a beam of light which is continuously and periodically displaced sideways substantially parallel to itself through a region or at a surface to light receiving apparatus for the purpose of monitoring the region or surface. the light receiving 'arrangement conveniently provides a signal when any irregularity is determined such as an obstruction of the region or the presence of a hole or other imperfection in the surface. it is frequently necessary to establish not only that such an obstruction or imperfect.ion is prasent -in the monitored region but also to establish'its position. for this purpose it is necessary to know the position of the scanning beam at the time the obstruction or imperfection is detected and this is conveniently achieved by means of a cyclical scale generator which produces signals in synchrony with the movement of the scanning beam from which the instantaneous position of the scanning beam can be readily derived. in a typical arrangement the light curtain generating apparatus comprises a transmitter part which genex.ate from a light source a light bead in a scanning plane, a light deflecting arrangement which is usually constructeia as a mirror wheel and a strip-like concave mirror with the surface of. the mirror wheel on which the light bead fa'lls located substantially at the focus of the concave mirror t,e scanning beam generated in the image space of ths concave mirror is directed through a corresponding strip-]like light outlet window and a cyclical scale extends along the light outlet window and is scanned by a part of the scanning beam. the scanning beam then passes via a scanning plane or a retroreflector to a photoelectric light receiving arrangement which detects and convert into a corresponding electrical signal the light reaching the scanning plane or reflected from the retroreflector. the arrangement is completed by a -further photoelectric detector which receives light from the cycle scale. it is however customary in known arrangements to return the light beam formed from that part of the scanning beam which falls on the cycle scale by autocollimation or quasiautocollimation back via the mirror wheel and then to reflect it out of the transmitted beam by a beam divider or deflecting mirror and then to pass it to the associated photoelectric detector. the cyclical scale generator is thus optically coupled via the scanning wheel with the light transmitter which places restrictions on the optical arrangement and¯givesrise to other disadvantages. the principal object of the present invention is thus to provide a light curtain generating apparatus incorporating a cyclical scale of the kind generally described above in which the light beam from the cycle scale need not be passed back via the mirror wheel but can instead, if required without the aid of the strip-l.ike concave mirror, be received by a simply constructed photodetector. for accomplishing this object there is provided in accordance with a first aspect
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
we claim:   1. light curtain generating apparatus incorporating a cyclical  scale generator 14, 15, 11   and'comprising    light source  means   1.9,-20,    21 for directing a beam of light to a light  deflecting arrangement 22 located substantially at the  focus of a concave mirror 23 and adapted to deflect said  beam through a variety of angles onto said concave mirror 23  for reflection thereat whereby to generate a moving scanning  beam 26 traversing the image space of the concave mirror  and forming said light curtain, beam dividing means 27  arranged to intercept said scanning beam and to divide  off and direct a part 13 of said scanning beam to the cyclical  scale generator 14, 15, 11 and wherein the cyclical scale  generator 14, 15,  11 includes a light conducting rod 11  with photoelectric detector means 12 arranged to receive  light incident on the surface of the light conducting rod  and passing through at least one of the ends of the light  conducting rod and a cycle scale 14 which extends substanti  ally parallel to the light conducting rod and which modul  ates the light fraction passed from the divided off part 13  of said scanning beam to the photoelectric detector means  12 to modulate the output signal therefrom.   2. light curtain generating apparatus in accordance with claim 1  and in which said light deflecting arrangement comprises a  mirror wheel 22, 3. light curtain generating apparatus in accordance with  either of the preceding claims and in which said concave  mirror 23 is of strip-like form.   4. light curtain generating apparatus according to claim 3  and in which said light conducting rod 11 is disposed  parallel to said concave mirror strip 23.     5. light curtain generating apparatus according to any one  of the preceding claims and in which said concave mirror  23 has a shape.chosen from one of the class of shapes  comprising spherically concave, parabolically concave,  circularly concave and hyperbolically concave.   6. light curtain generating apparatus according to any one  of the preceding claims and incorporating a photoelectric  light receiving arrangement for detecting said scanning  beam 26.   7. light curtain generating apparatus in accordance with claim 6  and incorporating a retro-reflector for reflecting   saidx     scanning beam to said photoelectric light receiving  arrangement.   8. light curtain generating apparatus -according to any one  of the preceding claims and incorporating a strip-like  light outlet window 24 for said scanning beam in-the image  space of said concave mirror.   9. light curtain generating apparatus according to claim 8  and in which said strip-like light   outlet 'window    24 is    substantially.,paralael to,said light conducting rod 1     and disposed after'said beam dividing means 27.   10. light   curtain,generating    apparatus in accordance with  any one of the preceding claims and in which,said cycle  scale 14   is-constructed -in -the -manner    of a bar pattern  arranged directly in front of the light conducting rod 1-1  parallel to   itsaxis    and   whichalternately    allows and  blocks the passage of the divided off part 13 of said  scanning beam to the light conducting rod 11 as this beam  sweeps over the bar pattern.     11. light curtain generating apparatus in accordance with  claim 10 and in which a cylindrical lens screen 15 is  arranged between the bar pattern 14 and the light con  ducting rod 11 with the axis of the cylindrical lenses  of said cylindrical lens screen extending at right angles  to the axis of the light conducting rod.   12. light curtain generating apparatus in accordance with  claim 1 and in which the light conducting rod carries  inclined mirrors 16 at regular intervals on its surface  diametrically opp9site to the light entry surface,   tbe     inclined mirrors 16 being adapted to reflect light incident  thereon in radial planes of the light conducting rod at  angles of total reflection into the interior of the light  conducting rod.   13. light curtain generating apparatus according to claim 12  and in which the regions between the individual inclined  mirrors 16 are constructed to absorb light 14. light curtain generating apparatus in accordance with  either of claims 12 and 13 and in which the light conducting  rod is arranged in a region of said divided off part of the  scanning beam at which it has a diameter such that it  embraces as large a part as possible of the diameter of  the light conducting rod.   15. light curtain generating   apparatus.,in.accordance    with claim  14 and in which a cylindrical lens 17 is positioned in  front of said light conducting rod.   16. light curtain generating apparatus in accordance with claim  12 and in which, on arranging the light conducting rod 11'  in the region of a fine scanning beam, a light scattering  element 18 is arranged in front of the light conducting  rod 11'.     17. light curtain generating apparatus in accordance with  claim 16 and in which a cylindrical lens 17 is interposed  between said light scattering element and said light  conducting rod   11'.      18. light curtain generating apparatus in-accordance with  claim 16 and in which said light scattering element 18  is a cylindrical lens screen disposed with the axes of  the cylindrical lenses extending parallel to the light  conducting rod.   19. light curtain generating apparatus incorporating a cyclical  scale generator 31, 11 and comprising light source means 19, 20,  21 for directing a beam of light to a light deflecting  arrangement 22 located substantially at the focus of a  concave mirror 23 and adapted to deflect said beam through  a variety of angles onto said concave mirror for reflection  thereat whereby to generate a moving scanning   beam 26     traversing the image space of the concave mirror and  forming said light curtain, beam dividing means 27 arranged  to intercept said scanning.   beam and to divide off and  direct a part 13 of said scanning beam to the cyclical  scale generator 31, 11 and wherein said cyclical scale  generator 31, 11 comprises a series of individual photo  electric detectors 31 arranged spaced apart in a line-along  which said divided off part 13 of said scanning beam sweeps  whereby the signals generated from the individual   photo-     electric detectors 31 define a cyclical scale representative  of the instantaneous position of said scanning beam.      20.    light curtain generating apparatus incorporating a cyclical  scale generator 14, 15, 11 and comprising a transmitter  part 19, 20, 21, 22 incorporating light source means  19, 20, 21 for directing a beam of light to a light 'de  flecting arrangement 22 located substantially at   the focus        of a concave mirror 23 and adapted to deflect said beam  through a variety of angles onto said concave mirror for  reflection thereat whereby to generate a moving scanning  beam 26 traversing the image space of the concave mirror  and forming said light curtain, beam dividing means 27  arranged to intercept said scanning beam and to divide off  and direct a part 13 of said scanning beam to the cyclical  scale generator 14, 15,   ii    said cyclical scale generator  14, 15,   11 being optically decoupled from said light  transmitter there being further provided a light receiving  arrangement for detecting said scanning beam, 21. a cyclical scale generator for use in light curtain gener  'ating apparatus in accordance with any one of the previous  claims.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
