<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0010285
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800430
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
C08G-18/62 C08F-8/32 C08G-18/69 C08C-19/00 C08C-19/36 C08F-8/00 C08G-18/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
hydroxyl-terminated liquid polymers and process for preparation thereof.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
goodrich co b fus<sep>the b.f. goodrich company<sep>the b.f. goodrich company500 south main streetakron, ohio 44318us <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
riew changkiu keith us  <sep>riew, changkiu keith<sep>riew, changkiu keith2173 rickel driveakron, ohio 44313us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
hydroxyl-terminated liquid polymers are prepared by  reacting at least one aminoalcohol with a carboxyl-terminated  liquid polymer having a carbon-carbon backbone.  these  polymers have better hydrolytic stability than hydroxyl-­ terminated liquid polymers containing ester groups, and are  useful together with polyisocyanates for open or centrifugal  casting, liquid injection molding and the like to produce vari­ ous thermoset elastomeric products.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
hydroxyl-termie7ated liquid polymers and process for preparation thereof background of the invention hydroxyl-terminated liquid polymers containing ester groups are known in the art. for example, u.s. patents 3,551,472 and 3,699,153 disclose such polymers made by reacting carboxyl-terminated liquid polymers with a diol in the presence of an acid catalyst, and u.s. patent 3,712,916 discloses such polymers made by reacting a carboxyl-terminated liquid polymer with ethylene oxide in the presence of a tertiary amine catalyst. ester groups present near the terminal portions of such polymers are rather prone to hydrolytic degradation and may reduce the useful life of products in which the polymers are used. new hydroxyl-terminated liquid polymers are desired having improved hydrolytic stability. summary of the invention hydroxyl-terminated liquid polymers are prepared by reacting at least one aminoalcohol with a carboxyl-terminated liquid polymer having a carboncarbon backbone. the hydroxyl-terminated liquid polymers have the formula emi1.1 wherein b is the carbon-carbon backbone, and ho-x- is a univalent radical obtained by removing a hydrogen atom from an amine group of an aliphatic, alicyclic, heterocyclic or aromatic aminoalcohol containing one primary or secondary hydroxyl group and one primary or secondary amine group per molecule. detailed description new hydroxyl-terminated liquid polymers having improved hydrolytic stability are produced by reacting at least one aminoalcohol with a carboxylterminated liquid polymer having a carbon-carbon backbone. the hydroxyl-terminated liquid polymers have the formula emi2.1 wherein hur-x is aunivalent radical obtained by removing a hydrogen atom from an amine group of an aliphatic, alicyclic, heterocyclic or aromatic aminoalcohol containing one primary or secondary hydroxyl group and one primary or secondary amine group per a-wnoalcohol molecule, with primary hydroxyl and amine groups being preferred. b is a polymeric backbone comprising carbon-carbon linkages. generally, the carbon-carbon linkages comprise at least about 95 wt.% of total polymeric backbone weight, preferably about 100 wt.% of total polymeric backbone weight. the hydroxylterminated liquid polymers contain an average of at least about 1.5 hydroxyl groups per molecule, more preferably from about 1.5 to 20 hydroxyl groups per molecule, and even more preferably from about 1.7 to about 4 hydroxyl groups per molecule. the fact that the average number may be slightly lss than 2 is accounted for by the fact that not all hydroxyl-terminated molecules in a given sample need have hydroxyl groups at both ends of the molecule. average numbers of hydroxyl groups per molecule above 2 are explained by the fact that additional group(s) may be located pendant to the polymer backbone. for example, an aminoalcohol will react with acrylic acid backbone unit(s) in the starting carboxyl-terminated liquid polymer as well as with end carboxyl group(s), resulting in both pendant and terminal hydroxyl functionality. the hydroxyl-terminated liquid polymers of this invention typically have brookfield viscosities (measured using a brookfield rvt viscometer at 27ec), from about 200 cps to about 2,000,000 cps, more preferably from about 200 cps to about 1,200,000 cps. the hydroxyl-terminated liquid polymers also typically have hydroxyl equivalent weights (gram molecular weight per hydroxyl group) from about 300 to about
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims    1. a hydroxyl-terminatdd liquid polymer containing an average of at least about 1.5 hydroxyl groups per molecule, said polymer having the formula emi14.1       wherein   o-x-    is a univalent radical obtained by removing a hydrogen atom from an amine group of an aliphatic, alicyclic, heterocyclic or aromatic aminoalcohol containing from 1 to 20 carbons, one primary or secon   dary    hydroxyl group, and one primary or secondary amine group per aminoalcohol molecule, and b is a   polymeric    backbone containing carbon-carbon linkages comprising at least 95% of total polymeric backbone weight,   saia    backbone b containing polymerized units of at least one vinylidene monomer having at least one terminal   ch2=c  <     group,  said monomer being selected   fro    the group consisting of (a) monoolefins containing 2 to 14 carbon atoms, (b) dienes containing 4 to 10 carbon atoms, and (c) vinyl and allyl ethers of alkyl radicals containing 1 to 8 carbon atoms.    2. a polymer of claim 1   containing    an average from about 1.5 to 20 hydroxyl groups per molecule, wherein said carbon-carbon linkages comprise 100% by weight of total polymeric backbone   weight,    and said monomer is selected from the group consisting of (a) monoolefins containing 2 to 8 carbon atoms, and (b) dienes containing 4 to 8 carbon atoms.    3. a polymer of claim 2 containing an average from about 1.7 to about 4 hydroxyl groups per molecule, wherein said vinylidene monomer contains copolymerized therewith from 0 to about 50 by weight of at least one vinylidene comonomer selected from the group consisting of (d) vinyl aromatics having the formula   emi15.1       wherein r is hydrogen or an alkyl radical containing from 1 to 4 carbon atoms, (e) vinyl nitriles having the formula emi15.2       wherein r1 is hydrogen or an alkyl radical containing 1 to 3 carbon atoms, (f) divinyls and diacrylates, (g) amides of   a,5-olefinically    unsaturated carboxylic acids containing 2 to 8 carbon atoms, (h) hydroxylcontaining vinylidene monomers, (i) acrylic acids and acrylates having the formula emi15.3       said r2 being hydrogen or an alkyl radical containing 1 to 3 carbon atoms and said r3 being hydrogen,  an alkyl radical containing 1 to 8 carbon atoms, or an alkoxyalkyl, alkylthioalkyl or cyanoalkyl radical containing 2 to 8 carbon atoms, and (j) diacetone acrylamide or n-vinyl-2-pyrrolidone.    4. a polymer of claim 3 wherein said aminoalcohol contains one primary hydroxyl group and one primary amine group per molecule, and said comonomer is selected from the group consisting of (f) said vinyl aromatics and (g) said vinyl nitriles.      5. a polymer of claim 4 wherein said vinylidene monomer is at least one of said dienes, and said comonomer is at least one of said vinyl aromatics.    6. a polymer of claim 5 wherein said aminoalcohol is 2-amino-l-ethanol, said vinylidene monomer is butadiene and said comonomer is styrene.      7. a    polymer of claim 4 wherein said vinylidene monomer is at least one of said dienes, and said comonomer is at least one of said vinyl nitriles.    8. a polymer of claim 7 wherein said aminoalcohol is 2-amino-l-ethanol, said vinylidene monomer is butadiene and said comonomer is acrylonitrile.    9. a process for preparing a   hdroxvl-    terminated liquid polymer containing an average of at least about 1.5 hydroxyl groups per molecule,  (1) said process comprising reacting (a) a carboxyl-terminated liquid polymer with (b) at least one aliphatic, alicyclic, heterocyclic or aromatic aminoalcohol containing from 1 to 20 carbon atoms, one primary or secondary hydroxyl group, and one primary or secondary amine group per aminoalcohol molecule, and  (2) said amine-terminated liquid polymer having the formula emi16.1       wherein ho-x- is a univalent radical obtained by removing a hydrogen atom from a primary or secondary amine group of said aminoalcohol, and b is a polymeric backbone containing carbon-carbon linkages comprising at least 95% of total polymeric backbone weight,  said backbone b containing polymerized units of at least one vinylidene monomer having at least one terminal   ch2=c  <  group, said monomer being selected from the    croup consisting of (a) monoolefins containing 2 to 14 carbon atoms,   (b)    dienes containing 4 to 10 carbon  atoms, and (c) vinyl and allyl ethers of alkyl radicals containing 1 to 8 carbon atoms.    10. a process of claim 9 wherein said hydroxyl-terminated liquid polymer contains an average from about 1.5 to about 20   hydroxylgrownsper    molecule, said carbon-carbon linkages comprise 100% by weight of total polymeric backbone weight, and said monomer is selected from the group consisting of (a) monoolefins containing 2 to 8 carbon atoms, and (b) dienes containing 4 to 8 carbon atoms.    11. a process of claim 10 wherein said hydroxyl-terminated liquid polymer contains an average from about 1.7 to about 4 hydroxyl groups per molecule, said vinylidene monomer contains copolymerized therewith from 0 to about 50% by weight of at least one comonomer selected from the group consisting of (e) vinyl aromatics having the formula emi17.1       wherein r2 is hydrogen or an alkyl radical containing from 1 to 4 carbon atoms, (f) vinyl nitriles having the formula emi17.2       wherein r3 is hydrogen or an alkyl radical containing 1 to 3 carbon atoms, (g) divinyls and diacrylates, (h) amides of   a,-olefinically    unsaturated carboxylic  acids containing 2 to 8 carbon atoms,  (h) hydroxylcontaining vinylidene monomers1 (i) acrylic acids and acrylates having the formula emi18.1       said r2 being hydrogen or an alkyl radical containing 1 to 3 carbon atoms and said r3 being   hydrogen,    an alkyl radical containing 1 to 8 carbon atoms, or an alkoxyalkyl, alkylthioalkyl or cyanoalkyl radical containing 2 to 8 carbon atoms, and (j) diacetone acrylamide or n-vinyl-2-pyrrolidone.     12. a process of claim 11 wherein said aminoalcohol contains one primary hydroxyl group and one primary amine group per molecule, and said comonomer is selected from the group consisting of (f) said vinyl aromatics and (g) said vinyl nitriles.     13. a process of claim 12 wherein said vinylidene monomer is at least one of said dienes, and said comonomer is at least one of said vinyl aromatics.    14. a process of claim 13 wherein said aminoalcohol is   2-amino- 1-ethanol,    said vinylidene monomer is butadiene and said comonomer is styrene.    15. a process of claim 12 wherein said vinylidene monomer is at least one of said dienes, and said comonomer is at least one of said vinyl nitriles.    16. a process of claim 15 wherein said aminoalcohol is 2-amino-l-ethanol, said vinylidene monomer is butadiene and said comonomer is acrylonitrile.   17. a process of claim 9 wherein a diester with molecular weight less than about 300 is added at, near the end of, or after the aminoalcohol/carboxyl-terminated liquid polymer reaction in an amount sufficient to react with residual aminoalcohol.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
