<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0016270
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19801001
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
F16C-11/10 F16C-11/04 F16B-9/00 F16B-9/02 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
attitude setting devices.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
douglas carl<sep>douglas, carl<sep>douglas, carlkanalia wildwood close pyrfordwoking surrey gu22 8plgb<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
douglas carl<sep>douglas, carl<sep>douglas, carlkanalia wildwood close pyrfordwoking surrey gu22 8plgb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
an attitude setting device for setting the attitude of a  mounted member (10), e. g.  a thole pin, adjustably mounted  on a base member (11) comprises a first setting element (12)  and a second setting element (13) arranged for rotation about  mutually-inclined axes.  relative rotation of the tapered  washer-type elements (12, 13) varies the inclination, and co足 rotation the orientation, of the member (10) which can then be  locked in a desired attitude by a locking means (16).  alterna足 tively the setting elements are arranged for symmetrical  contra-rotation so as to alter only the inclination of the  member (10); alterable orientation is achieved by providing a  further pair of setting elements.  equivalent setting elements  disclosed are skewed bushes and skewed sleeves.  in further embodiments the setting elements are co足 axially mounted, eccentrically-bored bushes surrounded by  an internally cylindrical mounted member; and circumferen足 tially and eccentrically-mounted rotatable bushes through  which the mounted member passes.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
attitude setting devices this invention relates t# setting devices for setting the attitude, i.e. the inclination and/or orientation, of a mounted member adjustably mounted on a base member many ways of varying the inclination and orientation of an adjustably mounted member are known; for example, the member may be fixed relatively to one member of a ball-and-socket and thus be variably inclinable and orientable relatively to the other member of the balland-socket. alternatively a device of the gimbal type may be employed. such known arrangements however suffer from various disadvantages amongst which may be mentioned the difficulty of locking the adjustable member in a predetermined inclination and orientation and the difficulty of accurately inclining or orientating the member in a desired predetermined position when employing a principle based on independent adjustment about mutually-perpendicular axes. according to the present invention there is provided a setting device for setting the attitude of a mounted member adjustably mounted on a base member, the device comprising a first setting element arranged for rotation with respect to the base member and a second setting element arranged for rotation with respect to the first element, the elements being rotatable about respective mutually-inclined axes or eccentrically mounted, and the arrangement being such that relative rotation of the elements varies the inclination of the mounted member. a setting device according to the present invention is usually incorporated into an adjustable mounting0 preferably the pair of setting elements are a pair of co-operating wedge#s capable of; combined rotation about one axis and-of independent relative rotation about another axis passing therethrough and inclined to said one axis. the wedge angles of the wedges may be the same or different: assuming that each-wedge angle is &alpha;/2 , then the inclination of-an axis defined by the mounted member can be varied from 0 to +-&alpha; by a combination of rotation and relative rotation of the pair of wedges, in a modification of the embodiment - employlng-wedges the setting elements comprise a pair of skewed bushes provided with abutting tapered flanges . alternatively, a pair of sleeves may be employed, one within the other-, the bore or each sleeve being--skew to its eft-ernal-- cylindrical surface so that rotation of the sleeves and relative rotation thereof will vary the inclination and the orientation of the axis defined by the outer cylindrical surface of the outer sleeve. according to another embodiment of the present invention -said elements are 'constitut#d by first send second eccentric bushes or like members through which the mounted member-passes, the bushes each#being: :;rotatable relative to the mounting and to each other, and further mounting means for the mounted member are provided at the point of intersection of the angle of the mounted member in a reference position and in a position inclined thereto means may be provided for locking the bushes- relative to each other and to said mounting. preferably the second bush surrounds the first but it may be solid with the mounted member, provided that the latter is rotatable.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:   1. a setting device for setting the attitude of a mounted member   (10,    20) adjustably mounted on a base member (11,24), the device comprising a first setting element (12,27) arranged for rotation with respect to the base member (11,24) and a second setting element (13,28) arranged for rotation with respect to the first element (12,27), characterised in that the first setting element (12,27) and the second se#tting element (13,28) are rotatable about respective mutually-inclined axes, or eccentrically mounted; the arrangement being such that relative rotation of the elements   (12,    27 and 13,28) varies the inclination of the mounted member   (10,20)    2. a device as claimed in   claim 1,    in which the first element   (12,2?)    and the second element (13,28) are arranged for rotation about   mutually-inclined    axes and are maintained in their relative dispositions by the engagement of a planar surface of the first element: : (12,27) with a planar surface of the second element (13,28), each surface being oblique to the axis   of >     respective   element      3.    a device as claimed in claim 1 or 2, in which the first element (42,52) and second element (43,53) are arranged for rotation about mutually-inclined axes and are maintained in their relative dispositions by the engagement of-an outer cylindrical surface of one element   (43,52)    with an inner cylindrical surface of the other element   (42,53).      4. a device as claimed in claim 1, in which the first and second elements are eccentrically mounted bushes   (64,65) through which the mounted member (60) passes, the bushes (64,65) being rotatable relative to the base member (66) and to each other and further mounting means   (61,62)    are provided at the point of intersection of the axis of the mounted member (60) in a reference position and in a position inclined thereto.   5. a device as claimed in claim 1, in which the first and second elements are each an element (72,73) having a circular cross-section and eccentrically mounted for rotation about a common axis (50) and the attitude defined by the elements   (72,73)    is imparted to the mounted member (74).   6. a device as claimed in any preceding claim, in   which    the first element (27) and the second element (28) are arranged for symmetrical contrarotation only relatively to the-base member (24) and thereby alter the inclination of the mounted member (20) with respect thereto.   7. a device as claimed in claim 6 and additionally   comprising-a    further pair of first and second elements (27,28) as defined in claim 8 and arranged to alter the inclination of   the mounted#member    (20) in a direction perpendicular to the direction of inclination imparted by the first-mentioned pair of elements   (27,28).       8. a device as claimed in claim 6 or 7, in which the first and second elements are each a tapered washer (27,28) and additionally comprising a slidably mounted plate   (?9)    interposed between the washers (27,28) and arranged for displacement by   calming     action on rotation of one washer (27) and for that displacement to cause equal rotation in an opposite sense of the other washer (28).   9. a device as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5, in which the elements (12,13) are so arranged that rotation of the elements without relative rotation varies the orientation of the mounted member   (10).       -t10. a device as claimed in any preceding   claim    further comprising locking means (15 and 26) for securing the mounted member (10,20) in a desired attitude relatively to the base member (11,24).  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
