<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0006258
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800109
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
F16B-7/14 F16B-7/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
device for clamping tubes sliding in each other in any desired position relative to each other.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
eenaeme edwin roger van <sep>van eenaeme, edwin roger <sep>van eenaeme, edwin rogerooievaarlaan 20b-8900 ieperbe<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
van eenaeme edwin roger<sep>van eenaeme, edwin roger<sep>van eenaeme, edwin rogerooievaarlaan 20b-8900 ieperbe<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
device for clamping tubes sliding in each other in  any desired position relative to each other, characterized  in that it comprises substantially a clamping journal (3)  projecting from a tube (2) and a clamping ring (4) fitted  on the projecting portion (7) of said journal (3) so that by  rotating the tubes (1-2) relative to each other, the clamp­ ing journal (3) causes the said clamping ring (4) to be  expanded and firmly pressed against the inner wall of  the outer tube (1), thereby fixedly clamping the tubes  (1-2) relative to each other.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
device for clamping tubes sliding in each other in any desired position relative to each other. this invention relates to a device for clamping tubes sliding in each other in any desired position relative to each other, in other wordts a device allowing to secure two or more telescopic tubes according to a suitable length relative to each other as a function of the momentary desires or requirements, or for mounting interchangeable tools or objects on a handle, e.g. for using a handle with a brush, a painting roll, a garden tool, etc. it is apparent that such a device may be used very effeciently in a very large number of applications such as for slidable handles for cleaning tools, housekeeping tools and the like, handles for parasols, shelves, fishing-rods, handles for interchangeable garden tools, holders for microphones, curtainrods, furniture legs, cranks, etc. this invention concerns a very simple clamping device whereby a slight rotation of one tube relative to the other is sufficient to connect both tubes or objects sliding in each other in their suitable relative position so that they cannot be moved axially relative to each other and, in a particular embodiment, this device will be designed so that, in spite of a very efficient mutual clamping of both tubes, the latter may be connected with each other as well by left-hand rotation as by right-hand rotation, on one hand, while through overcoming the clamping in any rotating direction, these tubes are released again, on the other hand. in fact, the latter application is very important when such device is used for purposes in which it is very difficult for some people to remember whether such tubes must be rotated leftwards or rightwise relative to each other in order to be connected with each other or released from each other and also for such applications which are generally carried out by right-handers, but are used by left-handers. this device comprises mainly a journal secured on one end of the tube having the smaller diameter, projecting from said tube, and a clamping ring fitted on the said projecting portion of the journal and the outer diameter of which is larger than the outer diameter of the said smaller tube, but equal or somewhat smaller than the inner diameter of the outermost tube in which said journal is slidably mounted, said clamping ring being thereby non rotatable relative to the outer tube, so that when rotating the said tubes relative to each other, the journal causes the said clamping ring to be expanded and firmly pressed against the inner wall of the outer tube, thereby securing the tubes fixedly relative to each other. in order to make more clearly apparent the characteristics of the invention, some preferred embodiments of a device according to the invention will be described hereafter by way of example and without any limitation, reference being made to the enclosed drawings in which figure 1 is a side view with partial cross-section and in a loose
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims.   1. device for clamping tubes sliding in each other in any desired position relative to each other, characterized in that it comprises substantially a journal or clamping journal (3) secured on one end of the tube (2) of the smaller diameter and projecting from said tube, and a clamping ring (4) fitted on the said projecting portion of the clamping journal (3) and the outer diameter of which is larger than the outer diameter of the said smaller tube (2), but is equal or somewhat smaller than the inner diameter of the outer tube (1), said clamping journal (3) being slidable and said clamping ring (4) being non rotatable relative to the outer tube (2) so that when rotating the said tubes (1-2) relative to each other, the clamping journal (3) causes the said clamping ring (4) to be expanded and firmly pressed against the inner wall of the outer tube (1),  thereby clamping fixedly the tubes (1-2) relative to each other.   2. device according to claim 1, characterized in that the said portion on the clamping journal (3) which projects from the tube (2) having the smaller diameter partially formed by at least one cylindrical portion (7) which is however eccentrically situated relative to the axial line of the tube structure and on which is fitted the said clamping ring (4), the latter being provided with a bore situated in registry with the said eccentric portion (7) of the clamping journal (3).   3. device according to one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the outer wall of the clamping ring (4) is provided with a recess oriented according to the axial line thereof.   4. device according to one of the claims 1 to 3, characterized in that the clamping ring (4) is provided with a slit (10) which is oriented according to the axial line of the  clamping ring (4).   5. device according to one of the claims 1 to 4, characterized in that the whole length of the said outer tube (1) is provided with an impress which may cooperate with the recess or slit (10) provided in the clamping ring (4).   6. device according to one of the claims 1 to 4, characterized in that the said outer tube (1) consists of a welded tube, the internal seam (11) of said tube having the possibility to cooperate with the said recess or slit (10) provided in the clamping ring (4).   7. device according to one of the claims 1 to 4, characterized in that the outer diameter of the clamping ring (4), in the relieved state, is somewhat larger than the inner diameter of the outer tube (1).   8. device according to one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the free end of the outer tube (1) is provided with a small cap (12) the inner diameter of which is substantially equal to the outer diameter of said inner tube.   9. device according to one of the claims 1 to 8, characterized in that, in the case of two or more eccentrically situated portions (7-8) of the clamping journal (3) projecting from the smaller tube (2) and with which may cooperate the clamping ring (4), the eccentricity of said portions (7-8)is disposed under an angle relative to each other.   10. device according to one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the said journal (3) is formed by a cylindrical portion (5) which may be press-fitted in the tube (2) having the smaller diameter, a flange (6) being fitted on said cylindrical portion (5) and having a diameter which is equal or substantially equal to the outer diameter of said smaller tube (2), one or several eccentric portions (7) being succes  sively disposed behind each other.    11. device according to one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the clamping ring (4) is provided with a small annular flange (14) surrounding the said flange (6)provided on the clamping journal (3).   12. device according to one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the clamping journal (3) comprises one or several oval portions (7).   13. device according to one of the claims 1 to 10, characterized in that the clamping journal (3) comprises one or several half oval portions or cams (7).   14. any industrial product using a device according to one of the preceding claims.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
