<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0005368
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19791114
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B65D-5/50 <main>B65D-75/36</main> B65B-11/50 B65B-11/52 B65D-81/07 B65D-81/05 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
blister-pack and process for its production.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
british petroleum co plcgb <sep>the british petroleum company p.l.c. <sep>the british petroleum company p.l.c.britannic house moor lanelondon ec2y 9bugb<sep>the british petroleum company p.l.c. <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
dirr ludwig wilhelm<sep>kochanek eberhard<sep>dirr, ludwig wilhelm<sep>kochanek, eberhard<sep>dirr, ludwig wilhelmtheodor-körner- strasse 4d-8033 planeggde<sep>kochanek, eberhardhaus nr.18d-8131 landstettende<sep>dirr, ludwig wilhelm <sep>kochanek, eberhard  <sep>dirr, ludwig wilhelmtheodor-körner- strasse 4d-8033 planeggde<sep>kochanek, eberhardhaus nr.18d-8131 landstettende<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a blister pack comprises a plastic trough projecting  from a window-like cut out in a frame.  the frame has at least  two lateral support sections at an angle to the outer periphery  of the frame.  the plastic only covers the frame as far  as the junction of the lateral support sections thus saving  plastic when compared with known blister packs and facilitating  mould release in manufacture.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
blister-dack and process for its production the invention relates to a blister-pack with a frame consisting of plane material with a window-like cut-out and at least two lateral support sections at an angle to the outer periphery of the frame, to which a plastic foil is applied in the window in the form of a trough. blister-packs of the type mentioned above are known from de-gm 76 37 448. their production consists of laying the frame, usually a corrugated cardboard blank, with the window over a positive mould, then laying a heated foil on the projections of the mould and the cardboard blank. by means of partial vacuum it is sucked close to the projections and the surface of the cardboard, and in doing so it forms a skin on the surface of the cardboard, and finally after mould release the embossed foil is pressed through the window to form the foil trough. blister-packs serve for the transportation and storage of packaged goods which are sensitive to impact and easily breakable. the blister-pack carrying the packaged goods is either enclosed in a despatch carton or two blister-packs surround the packaged goods and form in themselves the packing for transport when suitably fixed by a band. in the case of known blister-packs the foil forms a skin over the entire cardboard blank, including the lateral support sections. this is bound up on the one hand with the mode of production used, in which the cardboard blank is laid flat on a set of moulds over the extent of the drawing-benck the other hand, by means of the skin process only a limited adhesion between foil and cardboard can be achieved, because if one exceeds a certain temperature in the attempt to improve adhesion, when the partial vacuum is applied the foil is sucked into the fine channels of the corrugated cardboard at the inner edges of the window, so that a kind of perforation line develops there which accordingly possesses diminished strength. the known blister-packs thus involve a higher foil consumption than would be required to take the packaged goods. in addition, as a result of this the mould release is made so much more difficult that in practice after the foils have formed the skin the blister-packs are released from the moulds by hand with a knife. under certain conditions, it is true, the use of mechanical cutters is possible; yet here too, a considerable waste of foil cannot be avoided. the invention is based on the problem of producing a blister-pack of the type mentioned above in which the foil consumption is considerably reduced whilst maintaining an adequate adhesion and without considerably influencing the tearing strength at the inner edges of the window. starting from a blister-pack of the type mentioned at the outset, this problem is solved according to the invention by the fact that the foil is joined to the part of the frame only as far as the point of junction with the lateral support sections,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 patent claims   1. blister-pack with a frame of plane material with a window-like cut-out   snd    at least two lateral support sections at an angle tp the outer periphery of the frame, on which a plastic foil is applied as a trough in the   window    space, characterised by the fact that the plastic foil is joined   by heat-sealing    only with the section of the frame (2) as far as the point of junction of the lateral supporting sections (3).   2. blister-pack in accordance with claim 1, characterised by the fact that the window-like cut-out (5) is larger than the packaged goods which it must take (6) or larger than the   eection    of the packaged goods which is to be taken.   3. blister-pack in accordance with at least one of claims   i    and   2.      characterised by the fact that in the blister-pack containing the packaged goods the inside edges of the window (7) of the frame at no point come into contact with the packaged goods (6).     4. blister-pack in accordance with at least one of claims 1 to   5,    characterised   bg    the fact that in the   blister-p 6k    containing   the    packaged goods the lateral part (8) of the foil trough does not run parallel to the outer surfaces (9) of the packaged goods (6) lying there, but runs outwards from the edges   (10)    of the surface of the packaged goods to be found on the bottom of the foil trough.   5. blister-pack in accordance with at least one of claims 1 to   4,    characterised by a foil border   (11)    surrounding the inside edges of the window (7) and projecting over the frame (2).   6. blister-pack in accordance with at least one of claims 1 to 5, characterised by the fact that in the case of a   sub-divided    window with several separate troughs these are separated not by ridges formed of the frame material, but formed of the foil.   7. blister-pack in accordance with at least one of claims 1 to 6, characterised by four lateral support sections (21a, 22a, 21b, 22b), of which in each case two adjoining support sections (21a, 22a and 21b, 22b) are connected with each other, and a crease (25a, 25b), running diagonally over the frame (24) which in each case continues in the narrow supporting sections (21a, 21b) in such a manner that the creases (27a, 27b) between frame and narrow support sections (21a, 21b) form the bisecting lines with the angle enclosed by the creases (25a, 26a and 25b, 26b).   8. blister-pack in accordance with at least one of claims 1 to 6, characterised by four lateral support sections (31a, 32a, 31b, 32b) connected with each other, creases (33a, 33b) running centrally in the narrow lateral support sections (31 a, 31b) and parallel to the connecting edges (38a, 38b, 38c, 38d) of the support sections, which continue in the frame, and creases or slots (39a, 39b, 39c, 39d) running diagonally from the outside edges of the window to the inside edges of the window.     9. blister-pack in accordance with at least one of claims 1 to   ó,    characterised by four lateral support sections (41a, 42a, 41b,   42b)    of trapezoidal section tapering towards the frame side, creases (48a, 48b) running centrally in the narrow lateral support sections   (4ia,      4ib)    and almost parallel to the connecting edges (47a, 47b, 47c, 47d) of the lateral support sections, which continue in the frame, triangular peaks (50a, 50b,   50c,      50d)    located at the four corners of the frame and projecting upwards, and slots or creases (49a, 49b, 49c, 49d) running diagonally in the frame.   10. blister-pack in accordance with claim 8 or 9, characterised   =    flaps (37a, 37b or 46a,   46b)    located at least on the narrow support sections (31a, 31b or 41a,   41b),    in which the grooves (33a, 33b or 48a, 48b) of the narrow support section continue.   11. blister-pack in accordance with claim 8, characterised by four flaps located on the lateral support sections, which together form a tray.   12. blister-pack in accordance with at least one of claims 1 to 11, characterised by the fact that the frame consists of corrugated cardboard and the plastic parts are a transparent foil which is suitable for deep-drawing.   13. process for the production of a blister-pack in accordance with at least one of claims 1 to 12, characterised by the fact that in one working cycle one seals a plastic foil to the frame of a blank made of plane material using pressure and heat application by means of contact heating, the temperature of which is above the sealing temperature of the foil, one renders it deformable and brings it into a mould corresponding to the subsequent foil trough of the blister-pack.   14. process in accordance with claim 13, characterised by the fact that one brings about the deformability of the foil by pressure by means of compressed air on the contact heating device.     15. process in accordance with claims 13 or 14, characterised   d.      the fact that one produces the deformation of the foil by   applying    it by compressed air to the mould.   16. process in accordance with at least one of claims 13 to   15s    characterised by the fact that when deforming the foil one leaves a foil rim running round the inside edges of the window and projecting over the frame.    17. process in accordance with at least one of claims 13 to 16, characterised by the fact that when deforming the foil one leaves ridge-shaped foil sections.      18. process    in accordance with at least one of claims 13 to 17, characterised by the fact that one uses a mould which has been produced by excess pressure on the foil sheet when in a suitable condition for deep-drawing by means of a stretcher frame over the goods to be packaged, the window of the stretcher frame possessing the same or   somewhat    smaller dimensions, namely reduced by the width of the foil border, than the dimensions of the window of the subsequent blister-pack, and by casting the foil mould with a moulding compound.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
