<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0014599
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800820
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
C08G-77/28 C07F-7/18 C08G-77/38 H01B-3/46 <main>C07F-7/08</main> C08G-77/00 C07F-7/00 C08G-59/40 C08G-59/00 C07F-7/08 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
process for the production of silicones.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
m & t chemicals incus<sep>m & t chemicals, inc.<sep>m &amp; t chemicals, inc.one woodbridge centerwoodbridge, new jersey 07095us<sep>m & t chemicals, inc.<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
berger abe<sep>berger, abe<sep>berger, abe11 malvern drivesummit, new jersey 07901us<sep>berger, abe<sep>berger, abe11 malvern drivesummit, new jersey 07901us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
novel silicones having the general formula    wherein q is an aromatic nucleus, z is   -s-  -,    or -o-, r is a  bivalent group or a functional bivalent group, each r¹ is  chosen from monovalent hydrocarbon radicals and  functional hydrocarbon radicals and any one r¹ may be the  same as or different from another r¹, r³ is hydrogen or a  hydrocarbon radical or a functional group or atom, x is o or an  integer of 1 or more, f is a functional group or atom, with the  proviso that f is not primary amino when z is other than -o-,  and t is a group chosen from alkoxy, aryloxy or other  substituted or unsubstituted oxyhydrocarbyl radical and a  group having the general formula    wherein q, z, r, r¹, r³ and f are as defined above and any one  r may be the same as or different from the other r and one r    may be different from the other r³.  these compounds may be made by reacting the  compound    where g denotes alkoxy or aryloxy or other substituted or  unsubstituted oxyhydrocarbyl radical under conditions set  out in the specification.  the compounds are suitable for making copolymers of  silcones with other organic chemicals, curing catalysts for  epoxies, urethane and the like.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
"silicones and process for their production the present invention relates to silicones containing aromatic residues and to a process for their production. the invention is a development of the invention disclosed in our united states specification 4,139,547. at least some of the novel silicones of this invention are suitable for making silicone containing polymer materials employed as wire coatings, as passivation and/or protective coatings for semiconductor devices, and for curing epoxy resins. the electrical industry is always seeking suitable coating material which will improve the physical and/or electrical properties of electrical articles to which it is applied. the material when cured must also be easily repairable when required and only a small amount of material be applied to the article to achieve the desirable electrical and chemical properties. suitable coating materials may include a copolymer which when cured can be the reaction product of a silicon-free organic diamine, and organic tetra carboxylic dianhydride and a polysiloxane diamine. any improvements in electrical and physical properties of coating materials which can be achieved by improving the process of making one or more of the ingredients is most desired by industry. the chemical industry is always looking for chemical intermediates for making improved copolymers of silicones with other organic materials and curing catalysts for epoxy resins, urethanes and the like. british patent specification 1,062,418 teaches new nitrogen-containing siloxanes having an amino functional r group of the following general formula aro-c h si a 2a wherein ar is an aminoarpl, nitroaryl, amino-nitroaryl, or amidoaryl radical, and a is a positive integer. the said british specification further teaches that two of the remaining valency bonds in the above given formula may be occupied by halogen, alkyl, aryl, aralkyl, alkaryl, alkoxy, aryloxy, or a group or groups obtained from aryloxyalkylsiloxyl group, the remaining bond being occupied by an organosiloxaryl or substituted organosiloxaryl group. however, it is known in the silicone art that halogen containing silanes will spontaneously condense with either a primary or a secondary amino group to produce silicon-nitrogen bonds as silazanes or silylarylamines and amine hydrochlorides, including the materials which fit the above general formula of the said british specification. further, the process taught in the said british specification may. be subject to several inherent drawbacks should one wish to employ the process commercially. some of these drawbacks include (1) the yields of the process are insufficient to be commercially feasible, (2) iodoalkyl silanes are expensive and are not commercially available, (3) pressure reactions are potentially hazardous and should be avoided when possible, (4) hydrazine is a highly toxic and corrosive material to handle in any quantity, and (5) the solvents employed have low flash points. therefore, it is an object of this invention to provide new and improved functional containing silicones at least some of which will be suitable for use in making wire coatings, junction and/or protective coating materials for semiconductor devices, and for curing epoxy resins. another object of this invention is to provide a new and improved process for making
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims.   1. a silicone characterised by having the general formula emi24.1         (xiii)    wherein q is an aromatic nucleus, z is -s-, emi24.2       emi24.3       or   -o-,    r is a bivalent group or a functional bivalent group, each   r1    is chosen from monovalent hydrocarbon radicals and functional hydrocarbon radicals and any one r may be the same as or different from another r1, r3 is hydrogen or a hydrocarbon radical or a functional group or atom, x is o or an integer of 1 or more, f is a functional group or atom, with the proviso that f is not primary amino   when    z is other than -0-, and t is a group chosen from alkoxy, aryloxy or other substituted or unsubstituted oxyhydrocarbyl radical and a group having the general formula emi24.4       wherein q, z,  r,   r1,    r3   and f    are as defined above and any one r may be the same as or different from the other r and one r3 may be different from the other r  2. a silicone according to claim 1, having the emi25.1       wherein q, r, r1 and x are as defined in claim 1.   3. a   silicone according    to claim 1, wherein t is a group having the general formula emi25.2       wherein q, z, r,   r      r    and f are as defined in claim 1 and x is 1 or a higher integer and the end product ranges from an oligomeric functionally capped polysiloxane to a high molecular weight functionally capped polysiloxane.   4. a silicone according to claim 1,   wherein    t is a group having the general formula emi25.3       wherein q, z, r,   r1,    r and f are as defined in claim 1 and x is 0, and the end product is a disiloxane.     5. a silicone according to claim 1,   wherein    t is an alkoxy group, x is 0, and the end product is   a monoalkoxy    capped silane.      6. h silicone according to claim 1, wherein t    is an aryloxy group, x is 0, and the end product is a monoaryloxy capped silane.   7. a silicone according to claim 1 or claim 3 or claim 4, wherein f is a functional group chosen from   primary    amino, secondary amino, tertiary amino, a carboalkoxy group and a   fonmyl    group.   8. a silicone according to claim 1 or claim 3 or claim 4, wherein f is a functional group chosen from a formyl group, a nitro group, a keto group, a hydroxy group and a nitrilo group.   9. a silicone according to claim 1 or claim 3 or   claim    4, f is a functional group chosen from amido, carboxy, mercapto, halogeno, dialkyl phosphino and dlaryl   phosphine.      10. a silicone according to claim 1, having the general   formula    emi26.1       wherein f, q, z, r and r are as defined in claim 1 and r" is alkyl or aryl or other substituted or unsubstituted hydrocarbyl radical.     11. a silicone according to claim 10, wherein r is   a.propylene    or butylene group and   r3    is hydrogen.   12. a silicone according to claim 10 or claim 11, wherein z is   -o-.      13. a silicone according to any one of claims 10 to 12, wherein f is a functional group chosen from     -cn,  claim,  7  -r7 2n,     -r7nh, and emi27.1        7 wherein r is a monovalent hydrocarbon radical or a functional hydrocarbon radical  and f is ortho, meta or para to the ether group.   14. a silicone according to any one of claims 10 to 12, wherein f is a functional atom or group chosen from emi27.2         -s-cu3,    -cl, and    -oh, and f is ortho, meta or para to the ether group.   15. a process for making a silicone having the general   formula(xiii)as    defined in claim 1 characterised in that it comprises: (a) preparing a mixture of an aqueous alkaline organic solvent mixture and a compound having the general formula emi28.1       wherein the symbols are as defined in claim 1; (b) bringing the resultant mixture to reflux temperature; (c) maintaining the reaction mixture at reflux temperature while constantly agitating the reaction mixture; (d) removing water; (e) cooling the reaction mixture to a temperature within a predetermined temperature range after all of the water has been removed; ; (f) adding a compound having the general formula emi28.2       or the general formula   emi29.1       wherein halo denotes hydrogen, g denotes alkoxy or aryloxy or other substituted or unsubstituted oxyhydrocarbyl radical, and the other symbols are as defined in claim 1, to the reaction temperature while maintaining the temperature within the predetermined range;   (g) containing    the reaction for a period upon completion of the addition of the reactant specified in (f); (h) stripping the organic solvent, and (i) distilling the stripped reaction mixture to obtain the required silicone having the general formula (xiii) as defined in claim 1.    16. a process according to claim 15, wherein the aqueous alkali is aqueous sodium hydroxide or other alkali metal hydroxide.   17. a process according to claim 15 or claim 16, wherein the organic solvent comprises a mixture of toluene and dimethylsulphoxide.   18. a process according to any one of claims 15 to 17, wherein f is primary amino and z is   -o-.      19. a process according to any one of claims 15 to 18, wherein the compound specified in step (f) of claim 16 is chosen from an alkoxy dimethylhalopropylsilane, an alkoxy dimethylhalobutyl silane, a 1,3-bis(halopropyl) tetramethyldisiloxane and a 1,3-bis(halobutyl)tetramethyl  disiloxane.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
