<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0006100
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800109
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
H01R-4/24 <main>H01R-23/00</main> H01R-13/648 H01R-13/658 H01R-12/24 H01R-12/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
ribbon cable connector.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
hatch david a<sep>hatch, david, a.<sep>hatch, david, a.20, pleasant streetsherborn, massachusetts 01770us<sep>hatch, david, a.  <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
hatch david a<sep>hatch, david, a.<sep>hatch, david, a.20, pleasant streetsherborn, massachusetts 01770us<sep>hatch, david, a.<sep>hatch, david, a.20, pleasant streetsherborn, massachusetts 01770us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
an electrical connector composed of a dielectric housing  (16) that defines an internal cavity, cable openings for  receiving the ends of a pair of flat ribbon cables (71) with  alternating ground and signal wires (72, 73), and conductor  openings for receiving conductor elements (74) to be  connected to the conductive wires (72, 73) in the flat cables.   located in the cavity is a first grounding bus for electrically  connecting together the alternate ground wires in  one of the cables and a second grounding bus for electrically  connecting together the alternate ground wires in  the other cable.  also retained within the cavity are a  plurality of electrically isolated coupling elements each  operative to electrically connect one of the conductor elements  (74) with a different one of the alternate signal wires  in the two cables.  finally a ground output means connects  the first and second grounding busses to at least one conductor  element so as to connect all of the ground wires  to a circuit common outside the connector.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
method and agparatue for connecting flat cable this invention relates to connectors for use with flat ribbon cables which include a large number of spaced apart, parallel conductive wires retained within a flexible insulative sheath. flat ribbon cables are used extensively in the wiring of printed and other intricate electrical and electronic circuits. vouch cables greatly simplify the interconnection of circuits in electrical processes employing a multitude of independent signal lines. in addition, by grounding alternate wires in each cable, electrical interference or cross talk between adjacent signal lines can be greatly diminished. although they offer many advantages, the procedures normally required to complete circuits with flat ribbon cable are tedious and time consuming. accordingly, there is a great need for connectors tat can simplify these procedures. the object of this invention, therefore, is to provide an electrical connector that will both improve and simplify the use of flat ribbon cable. the invention is an electrical connector composed of a dielectric housing that defines an internal cavity,cable openings for receiving the ends of a pair of flat ribbon cables with alternate ground and signal wires, and conductor openings for receiving conductor elements to be connected to the conductive wires in te flat cables. located in the cavity is a first grounding bus for electrically connecting together the alternate ground wires in one of the cables and a second grounding bus for electrically connecting together the alternate ground wires in the other cable. also retained within the cavity are a plurality of electrically isolated coupling elements each operative to electrically connect one of the conductor elements with a different one of the alternate signal wires in the two cables. finally a ground output means connects the first and second grounding busses to at least one conductor element so as to connect all of the ground wires to a circuit common outside the connector. in a preferred embodiment the first and second busses are connected together within the cavity so as to permit commoning of both busses via a single conductor element. by accomadating a pair of flat ribbon cables and internally connecting the alternate ground wires thereof, the present connector provides an output signal density approximately twice that exhibited by conventional flat cable connectors. in a preferred embodiment of the invention, the dielectric housing comprises a pair of identical mating parts separated by a divider that divides the cavity into first and second cavity portions that each receive one of the individual flat cables that enter one end of the housing in a longitudinally parallel relationship. the conductor elements enter conductor openings in the opposite end of the housing and connect with the coupling elements which are arranged in rows extending transversely to the cables. the coupling elements in the first cavity portion are positioned to connect with the alternate signal wires in one of the cables and the coupling elements in the second cavity portion are positioned to connect with the alternate signal wires in the other cable. similarly arranged
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
   clauus:      1. an electrical connector for flat ribbon cables   con:rrisixi##'    a   elurality    of transversely spaced elongate conductive wires within an insulative sheath, characterized in a dielectric housing   (loo)    defining an internal cavity   (21),    cable openings (23) for accommodating entry into the cavity of ends of a pair of parallel longitudinally aligned flat ribbon cables (71), and conductor   opening    (35) for   socommodating    entry into the cavity (21) of a plurality of conductor elements (74),  the housing comprising a first housing part   (l6a)    having an open side and defining a first cavity portion (21a) of the cavity (21) and a second housing part (16b) having an open side and defining a second cavity portion of the cavity (21), the first (16a) and second (16b) housing parts being engaged to close the open sides, a distinct divider part (77) positioned within the cavity (21)   so    as to electrically isolate the first cavity portion   (21a)    from the second cavity portion, a first grounding means retained within the first cavity   (21a)    portion and operative to electrically connect together a plurality of conductive wires (72) in one of the cables,  a second grounding means retained within the second cavity portion and operative to electrically connect together a plurality of conductive wires   (73)    in the other cable, a first plurality of   electrically    isolated coupling elements (46) retained within the first cavity portion (21a) and each operative to electrically connect a different one of the conductive wires in the one cable to a respective different one of the conductor elements, and a second plurality of electrically isolated coupling elements retained within the second cavity portion and each operative to electrically   connect    a different one of the conductive wires in the other cable to a respective different one of the conductor elements.   2. an electrical connector as claimed in claim 1, in which the first grounding means is operative to electrically connect together alternate conductive wires in the one cable, and   the. #econ &       grounding    means is   @@erative    to electrically connect together alternate conductive wires in the second cable.   3. an electrical connector as claimed in claim 2, in which the   fi.nt      plur-    ality of coupling elements (46) connect to signal conductive wires in the one cable that alternates with the alternate conductive wires connected   tether     by the first   urouadinff    means, and the second plurality of coupling elements connect to signal conductive wires   in    the other cable that alternates with the alternate conductive wires   complected    together by the second grounding means.   4. an electrical connector as claimed in claim 3, in which   ground    output means connect the first grounding means to at least one of the conductor elements and the second grounding means to at least one of the conductor elements.   5. an electrical connector as claimed in claim 4, in which the ground output   means    comprises means for connecting the first and second grounding means to at least one of the signal conductive wires.   6. an electrical connector as claimed in claim 5, in which the cable openr   winge    (23) are defined by one end of the housing (16) and the conductor open, ings (35) are defined by an opposite end thereof.   7. an electrical connector an claimed in claim 5, in which the first plurality of coupling elements are arranged in a row extending transversely to the one cable and with each element   aligned    with one of the signal wires, the first grounding means   comprises    a first plurality of interconnected ground terminals   artmulged    in a row extending transversely to the one cable and longitudinally spaced from the row of first elements, the ground   term,    inals being aligned with the alternate conductive wires of the one cable, the second plurality of coupling element are   arranged    in a row extending transversely to the other cable and with each element aligned with one of the signal wires,  the second grounding means comprises a second plurality of interconnected ground terminals arranged in a row extending transversely to the one cable and longitudinally spaced from the row of second elements, the ground terminals being aligned with the alternate conductive wires of the other cable.   8. an electrical connector as claimed in claim 1, in which means are provided within the cavity for connecting the first grounding means to the second grounding means.     9. an electrical connector as claimed   lil    claim 7,   m    which the first   plur-    alities of   coupling    elements and ground terminals   comprise    first stationary piercing portions extending in one direction towards a planar region occupied by the one cable, the second pluralities of   couplirys    elements and ground terminals comprise second stationary piercing portions disposed vis-a-vis the first piercing portions and extending towards the planar region in a direction opposite said one direction,   and the first piercing portions are adapted to pierce the one cable and ths second piercing portions are adapted to pierce the other cable in response to relative movement between the cables and the mating parts in a direction transverse to the planar   region..      10. an electrical connector as claimed in claim 9, in which each of the coupling elements and ground terminals comprise   bifurcated    portions (94) that straddle the wires and the opposite sides of the divider part comprise a plurality of recesses that receive and retain so as to prevent separation of the bifurcated portions.   11. an electrical connector as claimed in claim 10, in which one end of the housing is substantially wider than the opposite end in a direction transverse to the rows of elements and terminals.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
