<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0015131
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800903
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
F03D-11/00 F03D-11/04 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
support structure for wind-powered electric generators.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
gilchrist timothy m<sep>gilchrist, timothy michael <sep>gilchrist, timothy michaelmavis banknewrath waterford ie  <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
gilchrist timothy michael<sep>gilchrist, timothy michael<sep>gilchrist, timothy michaelmavis banknewrath waterfordie<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
the generator and wind-powered rotor (9) are carried by  a horizontal beam (1) located above the surface of the earth,  the beam being anchored to anchor means (14) on the surface  by a system of flexible cables (12, 13) such that the beam (1)  may move in a circular path around the anchor (14) to face the  rotor (9) into the wind, irrespective of the direction of the wind.   the beam (1) is preferably mounted on a vertical lattice tower  (2) to form a crane-like structure of the centilever type.  the  tower (2) may be movable on wheels, trolleys, railway cars or  the like, or on a floating, semi-submersible or submersible  platform located at sea.  in another embodiment the beam (1)  is carried by a lighter-than-air vehicle.  preferably a plurality of  support structures each carrying a rotor (9) are interconnected  to form a multi-module array which is movable as a whole  around anchor means (14).  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
support structure for wind-powered electric generators the invention relates to improvements in wind-powered electric generators and is particularly concerned with support structures for such generators. the study of solar energy and its practical application has been of academic interest for many years, but it was the world oil crisis in 1973-74 that provided the incentive to confront in a realistic way the many complicated and difficult problems associated with applied solar energy. solar energy may be divided into four main fields of secondary energy forces - (a) direct sunlight i.e. heat and light, (b) wind, (c) waves i.e. marine forces generated by wind, and (d) water - i.e. hydro electric from rainfall and thermal marine i.e. differential temperatures between deep water and ocean surface. for the maximum development of solar energy, these four main energy elements must be developed in direct relation to each forces specific energy contribution, having regard to its nature in time and place. the well known advantages of wind energy are that it is: free, unlimited, perpetually renewable and from the environmental aspect completely non-polluting. all these positive factors, unfortunately, are usually over-emphasised by enthusiastic alternative energy advocates, without consideration of its many and formidable disadvantages. these major problems are its complete lack of control in time, speed or force, temperature, direction, location and season. these normal functions of universal meterological conditions over surface of world do not lend themselves to any form of scientific control, in spite of many such attempts in the past. in most of the wind energy research completed to date over the last 20 - 30 years, lack of full appreciation of these disadvantages and constraints have inhibited the full development of wind energy and its massive potential contribution to energy starved world economics. in the course of a research study on the theory and practice of wind energy electricity generation, the present applicant carried out an in-depth study of every known wind energy system in existence since approximately 1950, both in europe and to a lesser extent in the u.s.a. without exception every system was found to be a complete interdependent entity, i.e. an integral combined support tower and wind rotor. from earliest times, all traditional windmills as used for corn grinding and flood control consisted of a massive stone or timber central tower supporting an up-wind four bladed timber and canvas rotor. from about 1900 onwards, with the advent of steel or cast iron lattice towers, most large scale electricity generating wind turbines were of the down-wind variety in relation to the support tower, which general system persists to the present day. as a result of practical experience from some large size units, recently erected for test purposes in the u.s.a. - ohio, new mexico and north carolina - it was found that the large two blade high speed rotor on a lattice tower is not a complete success. essential to the study of modern wind power are many important technical publications such as "the generation of electricity by
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims   1. a support structure for a wind-powered electric generator comprising a substantially horizontal load-carrying beam located above the surface of the earth and adapted to carry a wind rotor and generator, characterised in   that    the beam (1) is anchored by means of a stabilising stay system comprised of at least one flexible cable (12, 13) connecting the beam to anchor means (14) located at the surface of the earth, and the beam (1) and/or the anchor means (14) are movable in an arc relative to each other whereby the beam (1) may be maintained substantially downwind of the anchor means with the rotor (9) facing substantially into the wind irrespective of the direction of the wind.   2. a support structure according to claim 1, characterised in that the horizontal beam (1) is mounted on top of a vertical tower (2) to form a crane-like structure of the cantilever type which is mobile and is movable about a fixed anchor means (14) to which it is attached by means of the stabilising stay system   (    13).   3. a support structure according to claim 2, characterised in that the stabilising system comprises at least a first flexible cable (12) connecting the beam to the anchor means (14) and a second flexible cable (13) connecting the tower (2), adjacent the foot thereof, to the anchor means (14).   4. a support structure according to claim 2, characterised in that the tower (2) is mounted on a mobile horizontal platform (3) on which it is supported by means of a plurality of stays connected between the tower and the platform, and the stabilising stay system comprises at least a first flexible cable (12) connecting the beam to the anchor means (14) and at least a second flexible cable   '13)    connecting the platform (3) to the anchor means (14) such that the platform (3) may move in a circular path about the anchor.   o    5. a support structure according to clain 3 or 4, in which the vertical tower is movable along paths or tracks which are disposed in a circle of which the anchor means (14) defines the centre.   6. a support structure according to claim 3 or 4, characterised in that the vertical tower (2) and the anchor means (14) are each movable on a common circular track, or on concentric circular tracks (t).     7. a   support    structure for a wind-powered electric generator as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that the tower (2) is located in a body of water, and is anchored by means of said stabilising stay system of flexible cables (12, 13) to anchor means (114).   8. a support structure as claimed in claim 7, characterised in that the tower (2) is mounted on a buoyant platform (60) floating in-said body of water, or on a submersible or semi-submersible platform (60, 61).   9. a support structure as claimed in claim 7 or claim 8, characterised in that means are provided for   temporarily    securing the tower to a solid substrate located beneath the body of water, which when the body of water is the sea comprises the seabed, or when the body of water is a lake or river comprises the lake or river bottom.   10. a support structure according to claim 9, characterised in that said means for securing the tower comprises anchors (120) which may be raised or lowered on to said solid substrate by a system of cables (121) or the like.      11.    a support structure according to claim 7, characterised in that the anchor means (114) is fixed to a solid substrate beneath the body of water, which when the body of water is the sea comprises the seabed, or when the body of water is a lake or river comprises the lake or river bottom, or is fixed to a rock, island or other land means located in or adjacent to said body of water.   12. a support structure according to claim 11, characterised in that the anchor means comprises a lattice tower (115) resting on said solid substrate and supported by means of a system of stays (116) connecting the lattice tower (115) to piles or the like.   13. a wind energy conversion system, characterised in that it comprises a plurality of support structures as claimed in any of the preceding claims connected   to-    gether to form a multi-module array which is movable as a whole relative to anchor means (14, 114) to which each structure is connected by a stabilising stay system of flexible cables (12, 13).     14. a system as claimed in claim 13, characterised in that each tower (2) carry.   ing a rotor-support beam (1) is mounted on a platform (3) by means of a plural it of stays (6, 7) connected between the tower (2) and the platform (3), and in   tha-    each platform is joined   t    an adjacent platform by means of tensioned   longitudint    members (35)   interconnec4    ng the platforms to form a substantially linear multimodule array, and in that the tower (2) and beam (1) of each module are each con nected to common anchor means (14, 114) by a stabilising stay system of flexible cables   (12,    13), such that the multi-module array is movable as a whole in an arc relative to the anchor means (14).   15. a system as claimed in claim 14, characterised in that the platforms (3) are mounted on mobile trolleys (4) by means of which the multi-module array may be moved relative to the anchor means, and some of the trolleys (4) are common to adjacent platforms (3) to assist in interconnecting the platforms (3).   16. a system as claimed in claim 14, characterised in that each platform   comprise    a plurality of rigid longitudinal members (3,   30a)    which are connected to form the perimeter of the platform which in turn is connected to the foot of the tower (2) by radial members (31, 31a), and the beams (1) of each module of the array are interconnected by a system of   tension    stays (35a).   17. a system as claimed in claim 14, characterised in that the beams (1) of each module of the array are interconnected by means of substantially horizontall disposed braced rigid tensile beams (35b), and/or the towers (2) are interconnect by means of   sudstantially    horizontally disposed braced rigid tensile beams (35c), and in that secondary tensile cables (12a) connect said rigid tensile beams (35b, 35c) with the anchor means (14).    18. a system as claimed in claim 13, characterised in that each module of the array is movable along a circular track which is spaced from and concentric with the circular track on which the adjacent module is movable such that the whole array rotates on a plurality of parallel concentric tracks, and in that the anchor means (14) to which each module of the array is connected by the stay system (12, 13) is itself movable along a circular trick concentric with said   +.racks    along which the modules are movable.      13. a system as claimed in claim 18, characterised in that the tower (2) of      *      mcdfule    i carried on a railway car (40) movable along the tracks which   are in the form of railway tracks, and each tower-supporting railway car (40) is coupled to other rolling stock   (41)    carrying balancing weights.   20. a system as claimed in claim 19, characterised in that each tower is supported on a railway car (40) by means of stays (6, 7, 8) connecting the tower (2) and/or beam (1) to said rolling stock (41) to impart longitudinal stability to the tower (2), and that lateral stability for each tower (2) is obtained by means of stays connecting the tower (2) and/or beam (1) to rolling stock running on a track or tracks parallel to and concentric with the track on which the tower (2) moves.   21. a system as claimed in claim 13, characterised in that each tower (2) is mounted on a platform comprised of floats (60, 61) and is supported on said platform by means of a plurality of stays (6, 7) connected between the tower (2) and the platform, and in that each platform is joined to an adjacent platform by means of tensioned longitudinal members (35a) interconnecting the platforms to form a substantially linear multi-module array, and in that the tower (2) and beam (1) of each module are each connected   anchor    means (114) by a stabilising stay system of flexible cables (12, 13), such that the multimodule array is movable as a whole substantially in an arc relative to the anchor means   (114).      22. a system as claimed in claim 21, characterised in that each platform comprises a central flotation unit (61) on which the tower (2) stands surrounded by a plurality of flotation units (60) forming the periphery of the platform and each of which is connected to the central unit by means of radial compressive .members (63), and are joined together by means of longitudinal tension members (62), and in that some of the floats (60) are common to adjacent platforms to assist in interconnecting the platforms.   23. a system as claimed in claim 21, characterised in that a rigid longitudinal floating member (130) extends transversely of the multirodule array and is connected to   e-rth    module by diagonal tensile members   (131),    one end of said floating member be   19    rotatably connected to the anchor means (114).   24. a support structure for a wind-powered electric generator as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that the horizontal beam (1) is carried above the surface of the earth by a lighter than air vehicle.     25. a support structure for a wind-powered electric generator or a wind energy conversion system as claimed in any of the preceding claims, characterised in that the flexible cables (12, 13) of the stabilising stay system are sheathed polyamide filaments.   26. a structure or system as claimed in claim 53, characterised in that the sheathed polyamide filaments are of the kind sold under the trade names "parafil and   "kevlar".      27. a support structure as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that the beam (1) is surrounded by a plurality of fixed circular support members (23) which support a cone-shaped membrane (24) which covers the beam (1).   28. a support structure as claimed in any of the preceding claims, characterise in that it includes a rotor mechanism comprising a rotary ring (50) and having fixedly attached thereto a plurality of main gear wheels (50) supporting the rotor blades (9), a support means for the ring comprising a plurality of rotatable pneumatic wheels (19) arranged in a circle about the main beam (1) and in fixed relation thereto, the wheels (19) being in frictional contact with tracks (51) on the inner surface of the rotary ring (50) such that rotation of the ring   (    causes the wheels (19) to rotate, and secondary gear wheels (18) for transmitting drive from the main gear wheels (17) to a drive shaft driving at least one generator.    29. a support structure as claimed in claim 28, characterised in that the pneumatic wheels are conventional twin pneumatic tyred truck wheels (19), which exten around the inner perimeter of the rotary ring (50) and are held in fixed relation to the   be    (1) by means of radial spokes (52), and are provided with drum or disc brakes, and wherein frictional connection between the pneumatic wheels (19) and tracks (51) can be adjusted by varying the air pressure of the pneumatic wheels.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
