<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0006314
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800109
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
A61B-17/16 A61F-2/38 A61F-2/46 A61B-17/17 A61F-2/30 A61F-2/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
elbow prosthesis and instrumentation for implantation of the prosthesis.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
wadsworth thomas gordon<sep>wadsworth, thomas gordon<sep>wadsworth, thomas gordon22 hyde park squarelondon, w2 2nlgb<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
wadsworth thomas gordon<sep>wadsworth, thomas gordon<sep>wadsworth, thomas gordon22 hyde park squarelondon, w2 2nlgb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a prosthesis (2) for total or partial replacement of an  elbow comprising:   (i) a humeral component (4) to replace the trochlea  bone and to partially replace the capitulum bone of the  humerus (6), the component (4) being adapted to be fixed  to the humerus (6) and having a concave surface (16 -)  in the coronal plane, the surface of the component  (4) being convex (20 - fig.  4) in the sagittal plane at the  level of the concave surface (16), and (ii) an ulnar com­ ponent (8) having a corresponding convex surface (44 -)  in the coronal plane to articulate with the concave  surface (16) of the component (4) and a corresponding  concave surface (46 -) in the sagittal plane to articu­ late with the convex surface (20) of the component (4) in  the sagittal plane, any lateral shift of the ulnar component  (8) being discouraged in the prosthesis when in situ by the  side walls of the concave/convex articulation surface of the  nent (4).  the prosthesis may include (iii) a radial  component (12 -).  instrumentation for implantation of the prosthesis  comprising a pair of different bone chisels,  a humeral component impactor, and ulnar  component impactor  and a rasp is also  disclosed.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
"elbow replacement brosthesis" this invention relates to a prosthesis for tctal or partial replacement of an ebio, especially arthritic or ded e#elbow joints, which is relatively easy to install and which provides a relatively large range of flaxible movements. lore particularly, it concerns a form of elbow joint prosthesis that has good joint stability with minimum bone removal while providing normal flexion and extension motion; there is substantially no in-built constraint and so little strain or the seating of the prosthesis. in general, prosthetic replacement of the elbow has proved a difficult and often disappointin#' task over the years and this has been the experience of most surgeons in this field. in the past, it was common to replace the elbow joint by means of a constrained prosthesis, usually consisting of a large stem inserted into the humerus and another into the ulna and the two parts of the component linked together by an axle pin. the strong forces on the elbo tend to disrupt the prosthesis from the bone and a very great deal of bone had to be removed to put in such a prosthesis, resulting in the long-term in a disastrous situation very often if the prosthesis has, in fact, to be removed. there has been a move in recent times to a surface replacement of the elbow joint and v work in this area led to the developlient of a ocr strained device with a -slot stability factor which is described in u.o. patent specification 4,079,469. numerous patent specifications have issued describing bone joint prosthesis of one kind or another but none is wholly satisfactory. in spite of the numerous procedures and devices previously developed and used for elbow reconstruction, there exists a need for further improvement particularly as regards resulting joint stability, minimal removal of bone for insertion and allowance for normal flexion and extension motion as well as minimal strain on the seating of the prosthesis. according to the present invention there is provided a prosthesis for total or partial replacement of an eblow comprising a humeral component to replace the trochlea bone and to partially replace the capitulum bone of the humerus, the humeral component being adapted to be fixed to the humerus and having a concave surface in the coronal- plane, the surface of the humeral component being convex in the sagittal plane at the level of the concave surface in the coronal plane, and an ulnar component adapted to be seated on and into the olecranon process of the ulnar bone, the ulnar component having a corresponding convex surface in the coronal plane to articulate with the concave surface of the humeral component in the coronal plane and a corresponding concave surface in the sagittal plane to articulate with the convex surface of the humeral component in the sagittal plane, any lateral shift of the ulnar component being discouraged in the prosthesis when in situ by the side walls of the concave/convex articulation surface of the humeral component. preferably the concave
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
   cil & ms       1. a prosthesis for total or partial replace ment of an elbow comprising a humeral component to replace the trochlea bone and to partially replace the capitulum bone of the humerus, the humeral component being adapted to be fixed to the humerus and having a concave surface in the coronal plane, the surface of the humeral component being convex in the sagittal plane at the level of the concave surface in the coronal plane, and an ulnar component adapted to be seated on the olecranon process of the ulnar bone, the ulnar component having a corresponding convex surface in the coronal plane to articulate with the concave surface of the humeral component in the coronal plane and a corresponding concave surface in the sagittal plane to articulate with the convex surface of the humeral component in the sagittal plane,  any lateral shift of the ulnar component being discouraged in the prosthesis when in situ by the side walls of the concave/convex articulation surface of the humeral.component.      2. a prosthesis according to claim 1, wherein the concave surface of the humeral component ends laterally in a convex boundary surface, the convex boundary surface being in a plane normal to the coronal plane.    3. a prosthesis according to claim 2, wherein the lateral convex boundary surface of the humeral component is the boundary of a part-cylindrical surface extending in the coronal plane.    4. a prothesis according to claim 1 or claim 2, which includes a radial component.    5. a prosthesis according to claim 4, wherein the radial component comprise a a cylindrical head having an end concave surface adapted to articulate with part of the humeral prosthesis.    6. a prosthesis according to claims 3, 4 and 5, wherein the end concave surface is adapted to articulate with the part of the humeral prosthesis replacing the capitulum and with the remainder of the capitulum.    7. a prosthesis according to any preceding   clasw    wherein the humeral component   has    a u-slot therein, the u-slot being defined by anterior and posterior walls and a floor.    8. a prosthesis according to claim 7, wherein there is a longitudinal groove in each of the said  walls for keying of cement.    9. a prosthesis according to claim 7 or claim 8, wherein indented medial and lateral walls are present and inset into each of these is a wire marker to show the position of the prosthesis on x-ray.    10. a prosthesis according to claim 9, wherein there is a marker wire extending medially through the body of the humeral component and transversely to the side walls thereof.    11. a prosthesis according to any preceding claim, wherein the humeral component or the ulnar component or each is made partially of one material and partly of another material.    12. a prosthesis according to any preceding   claim    wherein the humeral component is made at least partially of a plastics material.    13. a prosthesis according to claim 12, wherein the plastics material is high density   pol#hylene.       14. a prosthesis according to any one of claims 1 to 11, wherein the humeral component is made at least partially of a metal or metallic alloy.    15. a prosthesis according to claim 14, wherein the metallic material is an alloy containing cobalt, chromium and molybdenum.    16. a prosthesis according to any preceding claim, wherein the surface of the ulnar component for  attachment to the ulnar bone comprises a keel of a dove-tailed   cross-section    and/or longitudinal section.    17. a prosthesis according to claim 16, wherein on either side of the keel are elongate grooves for keying of cement.    18. a prosthesis according to claim 16 or claim 17, which includes a stem extending distally from the keel for insertion into the ulnar bone.    19. a prosthesis according to claim 18, wherein the stem has nipples on its medial and lateral surfaces for keying of cement.    20. a prosthesis according to any preceding claim, wherein the ulnar component is made at least partially of a metal or metallic alloy.    21. a prosthesis according to claim 20, wherein the ulnar component is made at least partially of an alloy containing cobalt, chromium and molybdenum.    22. a prosthesis according to claim 4 or any claim appendant thereto, wherein the radial component has a stem for insertion into the radius.    23. a prosthesis according to claim 22, wherein the stem has one or more indented rings on it for keying of cement.      24. ; prosthesis according tc claim 4 or any   cairn      a pend2nt    thereto,   wherein    the   radial    component is made at least   "artiall7    of a metal or metallic material.    25.   x    prosthesis according to claim 24, wherein the radial component is made at least partially of   an    alloy containing cobalt,   cl#romium    and   molybdenum.       26. instrumentation for implantation of the prosthesis claimed in any preceding claim, comprising a humeral component impactor comprising a   handle    fixed to an end member having an internal curved pushing surface whose curvature corresponds to the external concave/convex surface of the humeral component in the coronal plane, and an ulnar component impactor comprising a handle fixed to an end member having an external curved pushing surface whose   curvature    corresponds to the internal convex/concave surface of the ulnar component.    27. instrumentation according to claim 26, including a pair of different bone chisels, each bone chisel having a head joined to a base member of inverted u-section by a stem, each limb of the usection terminating in a chisel tip, and the limbs of the u-section of each bone chisel lying in planes parallel to one another, and at least one of the bone chisels having its base member of inverted u-section  inclined to its stern.    28.   i#strumentation    according to claim 27, wherein   th.e    heads of the bone chisels are mallet heads.    29. instrumentation according to claim 27 or claim 28, wherein the ends of the limbs of the   u-    section of one of the bone chisels are inset with respect to the portions of   the    limbs merging with the web of the u-section.     30. instrumentation according to any one of claims 26 to 28, wherein the handles of the impactors are   t-shaped.       31. instrumentation according to   any    one of claims 26 to 30, which includes a rasp or the like to clear the surface of the olecranon during implantation of the prosthesis.    32. an elbow replacement prosthesis comprising:  a humeral component having an articular surface that is concave in a coronal plane and convex in a sagittal plane, and  an ulnar component having an articular surface that is convex in a coronal plane and concave in a sagittal plane, so as to be complementary to the articular surface of the humeral component.    33. an elbow replacement prosthesis comprising   an arcuate ulnar component, said ulnar   component    having an articular surface and including,   opposite    said surface, an arcuate keel   extending      ts ealona    and a stern   defending    from said   leel.        34. instrumentation for implantation of the prosthesis according to claim 32, comprising a humeral component impactor comprising a handle fixed to an end member having an impacting surface complementary to the articular   surfece    of the humeral component, and an ulnar component impactor   comprising    a handle fixed to an end member   having    an impacting surface   complementary    to the articular surface of the ulnar component.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
