<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0010354
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800430
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<main>B43L-1/12</main> C09D-5/04 G09F-1/00 B43L-1/00 G02F-1/01 G02F-1/09 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
a magnetic panel and a display assembly incorporating such panel.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
fox malcolm francisgb<sep>fox, malcolm francis<sep>fox, malcolm francis237 hinckley road leicester forest eastleicester le3 3phgb<sep>fox, malcolm francis<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
craig peter marshall<sep>fox malcolm francis<sep>craig, peter marshall<sep>fox, malcolm francis<sep>craig, peter marshallbretton waybretton peterborough pe3 8yagb<sep>fox, malcolm francis237 hinckley road leicester forest eastleicester le3 3phgb<sep>craig, peter marshall<sep>fox, malcolm francis<sep>craig, peter marshallbretton waybretton peterborough pe3 8yagb<sep>fox, malcolm francis237 hinckley road leicester forest eastleicester le3 3phgb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
the invention provides a magnetic panel (2) and a  magnetic display assembly incorporating such panel (2).  the  panel (2) comprises a front sheet (6) and a rear sheet (8) of  non-magnetic material between which is a chamber including  a plurality of pockets (12), the pockets (12) containing a fluid  mix (14) consisting of a magnetic coloured pigment, a hyd­ rocarbon fluid or its oxygenated derivatives or an aqueous  solution, a surface active dispersing agent and a pseudo-­ plastic thickening agent.  a magnetic stylus is used to cause  the magnetic coloured pigment, in the form of magnetic parti­ cles, to moved through the fluid mix (14).  the panel (2) may form part of a magnetic display assem­ bly which includes a top and a base, the top being hingedly  secured to the base so that the top may move relative to the  base, the panel being incorporated in the top of the assembly.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
a magnetic panel and a display assembly incorporating such. panel this invention relates to magnetìc panels. a magnetic panel according to the invention has many uses. a first and prime intended use of a magnetic panel accordion: to the invention is in a magnetic drawing board assembly by means of which drawings and other markings can be produced and erased as required by the use of magnetic styli or the like. such a magnetic drawing board assembly embodying a magnetic panel according to the invention is intended primarily for use as a toy'or plaything by children, but the magnetic drawing board assembly may also be used in educational establishments such as schools and colleges, both in place of the conventional blackboard or as a desk-top writing or drawing board. in addition, a magnetic panel according to the invention may be used as a display board or notice board on a large or small scale, and also as a pocket - or attache case - notebook. other uses of a magnetic panel according to the invention are firstly as an electrical display board, and secondly games where for instance the panel may have a "track" applied thereto by a magnetic stylus, which "track" would be engaged by means adapted to follow the path of the track. the magnetic panel according to the invention will also have many other uses which will readily present themselves to persons skilled in the art. it is already known to provide for example magnetic drawing boards. united states re-issue patent no 25822, describes a magnetic writing materials set in which balls consisting of magnetized spheres are enclosed between front and rear sheets containing a friction-lessening solution, said spheres being rotatable within said solution and relative to the front and rear sheets so as to produce or remove a display by means of a magnet tt}-ht,5h is moved over and in contact with one or other of sai sheets. the spheres are magnetized with a north poie and a south pole, the respective poles being of differing colours, so that as "selected" spheres are acted upon by the magnet, then those spheres will rotate and present a contrasting colour to that of the adjacent spheres - which are not acted upon by the magnet - and hence a display will be produced. united states patent-no.-3,103,751 discloses a chalkless writing board in which a plurality of metallic pins are located between a front rigid transparent non-magnetic plate and a back non-magnetic plate having a plurality of apertures therein in which - said pins are slidable from a non-viewing position to a viewing position, the pins being movable by means of a magnetic stylus which is moved across the face of the front non-magnetic plate. unites states patent no. 2,853,830 discloses a magnetic toy in which magnetic particles are movable by a magnetic wand which is movable over the outer surface of a cover of said toy so as to collect and deposit batches of the magnetic particles on
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:   1. a magnetic panel comprising an edge-sealed envelope formed of a front transparent or translucent sheet of a mon-magnetic material and a rear sheet of non-magnetic material, said sheets being spaced apart so as to provide a chamber therebetween, said chamber including a plurality of pockets and a fluid mix located in said chamber, said fluidmix consisting of a magnetic coloured pigment, a hydrocarbon fluid or its oxygenated derivatives or an   aqueous.bolution,    a surface active dispersing agent and a pseudo-plastic thickening agent based either upon a micellar system or an organically modified mineral system.   2. a magnetic panel according to claim 1, wherein the micelle based thickening agent is selected from carbohydrate esters; aluminium soaps; modified sorbitols and their derivatives; aromatic alcohols and their derivatives; soaps of alkali and alkaline earth metals (groups 1 and 2a of the periodic table); organic polymers; paraffin hydrocarbons; petroleum sulphonates; vegetable products (as herein defined); two component systems (as herein defined); single synthetic organic compounds (as herein defined); non-ionic surfactants; amine and carbon dioxide; esters, amides or amine salts of n-acylamino acids; aliphatic   polyhydria    alcohols and an alkanolamine salt of phosphate esters ethoxylated aliphatic alcohols; amides and amines derived from fatty acids; diisopropanolamine oleate and ammonia; cyclic carboxylic acid monoglyceride;  sorbitol or glucose benzaldehyde; stearate soap and a polyhydric alcohol; stearic acid and polyhydric alcohol; reduction of chromic irons by thisulphate to chromium iii and a polymer an organically modified mineral, and organic complexes of zirconium and ammonium acetate; and wherein the organically modified mineral system is  selected from dialkyl armnonium hectorite and simple alcohols, and long chain alkylamine modified bentonite.   3. a magnetic panel according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the dispersing fluid is a paraffin system, a water only system or a paraffinic system.   4. a magnetic panel according to any of claims 1 to 3, wherein said magnetic coloured pigment is in the form of magnetic particles of finely divided iron powder or iron oxide.   5. a magnetic panel according to any of claims 1 to 4, wherein said surface active dispersing agent is a high molecular weight unsaturated organic acid ester neutralised with a long chain polyamine-amide.   6. a magnetic panel according to any of   claims 1    to 6, wherein said fluid mix includes a second coloured pigment consisting of titanium dioxide powder in the rutile form or the anatase form.   7. a magnetic panel according to any of claim 1 to 6, wherein said pockets are formed in an intermediate sheet of synthetic plastics material located between the front sheet and the rear sheet of the envelope, said front sheet being adhesively secured to said intermediate sheet so as to isolate from each other the pockets of said intermediate sheet.   8. a magnetic panel according to any of claims 1 to 6, wherein said pockets are formed in the rear sheet of said envelope, the front sheet and the rear sheet being adhesively secured together so as to isolate from each other the pockets of said rear sheet.     9. a magnetic panel according to any of claims 1 to 6, wherein a honeycomb core is located between the front sheet and the rear sheet of the envelope, said honeycomb core consisting of individual pockets, the front sheet and the rear sheet being adhesively secured to opposed sides of the honeycomb core so as to isolate from each other the pockets of said honeycomb core.   10. a magnetic panel according to claim 9, wherein said honeycomb core is composed of a synthetic plastics material or a resin impregnated paper.   11. a magnetic panel according to any of claims 1 to 6, wherein said front sheet and said rear sheet are formed integrally as a one-piece structure having a plurality of elongated cells or tubes therein, said cells or tubes being separated by lands or walls of said structure.   12. a magnetic panel substantially as herein described with reference to and as illustrated in any of figures 1 to 4 of the accompanying drawings.   13. a magnetic display device including a magnetic panel according to any of claims 1 to 12 and further including a magnetic stylus for pausing the magnetic particles to move within the fluid mix to form a display on said panel.   14. a magnetic display assembly including a magnetic display device according to claim 13, said assembly including a top in which said magnetic panel is located, said top consisting of two identical halves which are secured together by   c-operating    dowel pins and recesses formed on said two halves, the panel being retained in position relative to said top by said dowel pins.     15. a magnetic display assembly according 'to claim 14, including a base to which said top is hingedly connected so as to enable the top to be moved relative to said base and to be locatable in a horizontal or substantially horizontal, or vertical or substantially vertical disposition relative to said base.   16. a magnetic display assembly according to claim 15, wherein the base of said assembly includes integral means to support the top in the horizontal or substantially horizontal, or vertical   or,substantially    vertical dispositions.   17. a magnetic display assembly substantially as herein described with reference to and as illustrated in figures 5 to 11 of the accompanying drawings.   18. a magnetic display assembly comprising a base and a top hingedly connected thereto, said top including a magnetic panel comprising an edge-sealed envelope formed of a front transparent or translucent sheet of a non-magnetic material and a rear sheet of non-magnetic material, said sheets being spaced apart so as to provide a chamber therebetween, said chamber including a plurality of pockets and a fluid mix located in said chamber, said fluid;mix consisting of a magnetic coloured pigment, a hydrocarbon fluid or its oxygenated derivatives or an aqueous solution, a surface active dispersing agent and a pseudo-plastic thickening agent based either upon a micellar system or an organically modified mineral system, and a magnetic stylus for causing the magnetic particles to move within the fluid mix to form a display on said panel.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
