<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0009527
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800416
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B01D-25/28 B01D-25/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
process and apparatus for automatically controlling the washing of a filter cake.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
mantell myron<sep>mantell, myron <sep>mantell, myron19 cooper driveboonton new jersey 07005 us  <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
mantell myron<sep>mantell, myron<sep>mantell, myron19 cooper driveboonton new jersey 07005us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
an influent stream is passed through a filter bed separat­ ing contained particulate material from the mother liquor, the  process being carried out until such time as the filter bed can  no longer practically sustain further separation operation.  a  wash step is then commenced in which a wash liquor is  passed through the filter bed, washing soluble components  sorbed or deposited on the filter bed or in the filter cake.  the  concentration of soluble components, e. g.  salts, in the wash  liquor is sensed and when the concentration reaches a pre­ determined minimum level, the wash liquid flow is stopped  for a predetermined period of time.  the flow is then resumed  for a predetermined minimum time period and if the concent­ ration of soluble components in the wash liquid is not, at the  end of said minimum time period, above a predetermined  minimum level, the wash step is terminated.  otherwise, the  wash step is intermittently repeated until such time as the  aforenoted termination occurs.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
"automatic control of a filter bed wash process' background of the invention field of the invention this invention relates to liquid filtering and more particularly, to the period washing of the filter cake. description of the prior art filtering techniques are well established in the art; and for the separation of particulate material from a mother liquor. in some applications a waste product must be removed and disposed of and in others the main product of a process is deposited on the filter. in some instances the mother liquor or soluble particles contained in the filter cake are valuable products which require recovery. t the wash can serve to wash soluble components from the filter cake. the instant invention is not concerned with, or limited to any particular filtering technique or type of filter bed, and has equal applicability to gravity filters, pressure filters or vacuum filters, and equally applies to backwash, throughwash or combination wash techniques. the thrust of the invention is at the maximizing of the efficiency of the wash operation irrespective of the type of filtration operation or filter bed with which the wash is used to remove mother liquor or soluble components sorbed or deposited on the filter or in the filter cake. due to the current recognition of the need to prevent solution of our atmosphere and water supplies, rivers and he like, the dumping of waste produce into bodies of water is frequently prohibited or restricted unless the waste produit 5 of such a nature as to not adversely affect the environ fluent. for this reason, -in many applications, it is necessary to reduce the quantities of waste being dumped. n other applications, the desire to separate soluble compo- ents from the wash liquor is due to the value of the soluble component. high energy and materials costs dictate that the recovery process involve the use of a minimum amount energy and therefore it is preferable to maximize the ratio of soluble component to wash liquor. the washing techniques typically involve passing as much wash fluid through the filter bed as necessary to separate thc soluble constituents from the filter cake. if all of the soluble salt contaminants or products which must be washed from the filter cake were contained in the mother liquor, removal would require one void volume of wash liquor. heretofore, very little consideration has been paid to the minimizing of the quantity of wash fluid which is used because of the uncertainties of establishing a minimum. summary of the invent ton it has now been found that the quantity of fluid used for the wash process can be dramatically reduced by the use of an intermittant wash step. in accordance with the present invention, an influent stream is passed through a filter bed separating contained particulate material from the mother liquor; the process being carried out until such time as the filter bed can no longer practically sustain further separation operation. a wash step is then comm ene ed in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
what is claimed is:   1. in the method of washing a filter cake to romove soluble constituents from the cake, the improvement comprising the steps of:  a. passing a wash fluid through a filter cake;  b. monitoring the concentration of at least one soluble constituent in the wash fluid;  c. interrupting the flow of wash fluid for a first predetermined period of time when the monitored   conceutra-    tion of said soluble constituents in the wash fluid reaches a predetermined first minimum level;  d. maintaining the flow of wash   fluid    a nonflow state for a predetermined first period of time;  e. after the expiration of   sard    first period of time, resuming the flow of wash fluid for a predetermined second minimum period of time; ;  f.   '    terminating the washing operation if the monitored concentration of said soluble constituent in the wash fluid does not exceed a predetermined second minimum level at said predetermined second minimum period of time; and  g. repeating steps (a) through (e) until the conditions of step (f) are met and the washing is terminated#  2. the method of claim 1, wherein said first minimum level and said second minimum level are identical.   3. an apparatus for controlling a washing process comprising:  a. a filter;  b. first conduit means for delivering a   firt    fluid mother liquor for flowing through said filter;  c. second conduit means for removing said first fluid mother liquor from said filter;  d. third conduit means   ior    delivering a wash fluid to said filter for   ilow    through said filter;  e. fourth   conduit    means for   removing    said wash  luid from said filter;  f. first valve means in said first conduit   means;     g. second valve means in said third conduit means  h. sensor means for sensing the concentration of a constituents of the fluid in said third conduit means;  i. a first timer;  j. a second timer; ;  k. first relay means responsive to a   pred etermin    concentration level of said constituent of said fluid in said fourth conduit means, said first relay means being responsive  to concentration levels below said predetermined concentration level to start said first timer,  first timer responsive means coupled to said second valve means responsive to said first timer to cause said first valve means to be maintained in a mandatory closed condition;  second timer responsive means coupled to said second valve means responsive to said second timer to cause said second valve means to be maintained in a mandatory open condition.   4. the apparatus of claim 3, further comprising a third timer responsive to the start of the washing process, and a third timer responsive means, responsive to said third timer to cause said second valve means to be maintained in a mandatory open condition.    5. the apparatus of claim 4, wherein said sensor means is a conductivity cell.   6. the method of claim 1, wherein said first predetermined period of time is on the order of one minute.   7. the method of claim 1, wherein said second predetermined period of time is on the order of   ten#minutes.        8. the method of claim 1, wherein said predetermined first period off time is sufficient to permit the increase in the concentration of said soluble constituent in said wash fluid due to the non-flow state of said wash fluid.    9. a   method    of washing a filter cake to remove soluble  constituents   frogs    the   cake    substantially as heteinbefore  described with reference to the   ccoapanying    drawings.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
