<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0005379
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19791114
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
G03C-1/733 C08F-2/50 C09B-11/00 G01N-23/22 C09K-9/02 G03F-7/105 G03F-7/09 C08F-2/00 G01N-23/225 G03C-1/00 <main>G03C-1/68</main> C09B-11/28 G03F-7/004 C08F-2/46 G03C-1/73 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
photosensitive compositions containing carbonylic halides as activators.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
dynachem corpus<sep>dynachem corporation<sep>dynachem corporation2632 michelle drivetustin california 92680us<sep>dynachem corporation<sep>dynachem corporation<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
lipson melvin a<sep>reardon edward joseph jr<sep>lipson, melvin a.<sep>reardon, edward joseph jr.<sep>lipson, melvin a.2829 altivo placefullerton california 92632us<sep>reardon, edward joseph jr.21795 meadowview laneel toro california 92632us<sep>lipson, melvin a.<sep>reardon, edward joseph jr.<sep>lipson, melvin a.<sep>reardon, edward joseph jr.<sep>lipson, melvin a.2829 altivo placefullerton california 92632us<sep>reardon, edward joseph jr.21795 meadowview laneel toro california 92632us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
compositions containing a polymerizable, curable or  crosslinkable component, a photoinitiator, a colorformer  capable of changing color upon contact with a suitable  activator and a latent activator containing an organic  halide will become insoluble and change color under the  influence of actinic radiation.  the organic halide is a  carbonylic compound such as an aliphatic or cycloalipathic  ketone or an ester or amide of a dicarboxylic  acid.  the compositions are useful to make resists used in  the electronics industry to manufacture printed circuits.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
carbolic halides as activators for phototropic composttons two techniques widely used in the fabrication of printed circuit boards are the additive process and the subtractive process. in the manufacture of tinted circuit boards by the subtractive process, there is adhered to the surface of a copper-clad laminate one surface of a dry, photoresist film; the other surface of the film is adhered to a filmsupport. the photoresist layer is thereafter exposed to light according to a predetermined pattern. the support film is thereafter removed and the copper layer is exposed by washina away the unexposed areas of the photoresist layer. the exposed copper layer is then etched away by chemical milling. in the additive process, there is adhered to the surface of a substrate (which may or may not be copper-clad) one surface of a dry photoresist film; the other surface is adhered to a film support. the dry photoresist layer is thereafter exposed to a predetermined light pattern and the support film is thereafter removed. the substrate is exposed by washing away the unexposed areas of the photoresist layer. at this point, the substrate is treated with appropriate sensitizers and metalizing solutions, whereby a layer of metal, usually copper, is applied to the substrate. the dry photoresist films are typically formulated to contrast in color with the substrates with which they are used. since they generally do not change color, it is extremely difficult to inspect the product after exposure to light but prior to removal of the unexposed areas of the photoresist film to insure that the light mask has been properly placed and to be sure that there are no imperfections or defects in the exposed photopolymerizable layer. it is extremely useful to have a dry photoresist film which visually indicates where the film has been exposed to light so that detection of defects can readily be made prior to developing the film and etching the copper-clad panels or building up a layer of metal on the exposed substrate. it would also be useful to have a liquid photopoler- izable system that is colorless or lightly colored in the unexposed state and which both crosslinks and becomes intensely colored upon exposure to actinic light. description of the prior art prior artisans who have worked on phototropic psot sensitive compositions have generally used the haldoenatet methanes and ethanes such as cert, ccis, cher3, cho13, ci3 etc. while these materials work in a laboratory context, their volatility makes fabrication of products having a reasonable shelf-life virtually impossible. further, the toxicity of these materials renders them dangerous to work with work done by toshio yamazaki, harriet j. cook and rlelvin a. lipson at dynachem corporation showed that stable phototropic photosensitive compositions could be obtained using the normally solid amideof a halogenated aliphatic carboxylic acid as an activator for the free base of an amino dyestuff. the general preference of the prior art in respect of organic halides used as activators is for there to be more than one halogen atom
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
    claims      1. a phototropic photosensitive composition characterised in that it comprises the following ingredients  a. at least one component capable of curing, crosslinking or polymerizing upon suitable initiation,  b. an initiator for said component that is potentiated by actinic radiation,  c. a colorformer capable of becoming more intensely colored upon contact with a color activator, said colorformer being selected from fluoran compounds and the free base of a dyestuff the halide salt of which is more intensely colored than the free base, and  d. a latent activator capable of activating the colorformer under the influence of actinic radiation comprising a proton donor and a carbonylic halide.   2. a composition according to claim 1 further characterised in that the component capable of curing, crosslinking or polymerizing comprises an acrylyl or methacrylyl compound which has the general formula emi69.1       when the compound has the formula emi69.2        m is h or ch3    is    is cycloalkyl of 5 to 12 carbon atoms, cycloalkenyl of 5 to 12 carbon atoms,     -c h n" or  p 2p  (cqh2qo) s qhq+    where    p    is an integer from 1 to 10    g    is an integer from 2 to 4  s is o or an integer from 1 to 4    n"    is hydrogen, hydroxyl, phenoxy, alkoxy of 1 to 8 carbon atoms; ;  and where the compound has the formula emi70.1        g is a polyvalent   alkylene    group of the formula  -cxh2x-yin which  x is an integer from 2 to 8  y is an integer from 0 to 2 or g is a divalent ether or ester group of the   formula     -(cqh2qo)tcqh2q- or  -(cqh2qcoo)tcqh2qwhere  t is an integer from 1 to 5,    g    is an integer from 2 to 4  and r is the valence of g and is an integer from 2 to 4.   3. a composition according to either of claims 1 or 2 further characterised in that the initiator comprises an aromatic carbonyl compound.   4. a composition according to any of claims   7    to 3 further characterised in that the fluoran compound has the general formula emi70.2        where   ii    is hydrogen or an aliphatic group having one  a to 12 carbon atoms that is either unsubstituted or optionally substituted and that may be interrupted by emi71.1       and that is bound directly via carbon or oxygen; rb is an amino group where one or both hydrogen atoms are optionally replaced by unsubstituted or substituted aliphatic groups, cycloaliphatic groups, aromatic groups or mixed aliphatic-aromatic groups or rb is a heterocyclic group having 3 to 12 ring members bound via a ring nitrogen and containing, in addition to nitrogen, one or more of oxygen and sulfur as hetero ring members or ra and rb together form a condensed aromatic nucleus ; ; r is hydrogen, halogen, an aliphatic group having one    c    to 12 carbon atoms that is unsubstituted or substituted and that may be interrupted by nitrogen or oxygen and    that is bound directly via carbon or oxygen, or ic is an  c    amino group where one or both hydrogen atoms are optionally replaced by either unsubstituted or substituted aliphatic groups, cycloaliphatic groups, aromatic groups, mixed    aliphatic-aromatic groups or where r is a heterocyclic  c    group with three to twelve ring members containing one or more of nitrogen, oxygen and sulfur as hetero ring    members or 1t is an aromatic group that is either unsub  c    stituted or optionally substituted or a mixed aliphaticaromatic group or an aromatic ether or aliphatic-aromatic ether group; rd is hydrogen, lower aliphatic or an amino group where one or both hydrogen atoms are optionally replaced by either unsubstituted or substituted aliphatic groups, cycloaliphatic groups, aromatic groups, mixed aliphatic-aromatic groups or hd is a heterocyclic group having 3 to 12 ring members containing one or more of nitrogen, oxygen and sulfur as hetero ring members; ;   ic    and   rf    each independently is hydrogen, unsubstituted  e or substituted aliphatic having 1 to 12 carbon atoms  which may be interrupted by oxygen or nitrogen, and   which    is to be bound directly via carbon, cycloaliphatic groups, aromatic groups,   mixed    aliphatic-aromatic groups, or r and   ltf,    together with the nitrogen atom form a hetero cyclic group   having    3 to 12 ring members, optionally containing, in addition to nitrogen, one or more of sulfur and oxygen as hetero ring members ;  (rg)m represents 1 to 3, independently, of hydrogen, lower aliphatic   bound    directly via carbon or oxygen, or is halogen, acetamide or optionally substituted amino and provided that at least one or rb,   rc    and   lld   is an amino group, as defined.   5. a composition according to claim 4 further characterised in that the fluoran compound is a 2-amino fluoran of the general formula: emi72.1       where   a1    is hydrogen, halogen, alkyl having 1 to 12 carbon atoms or alkoxy having 1 to 12 carbon atoms; r2 and r3 each independently is hydrogen, alkyl having 1 to 12 carbon atoms, alkenyl having 2 to 12 carbon atoms , alkoxyalkyl having 2 to 8 carbon atoms, alkoxycarbonylalkyl having 3 to 9 carbon atoms, cycloalkyl having 5 or 6 carbon atoms, acyl having 1 to 12 carbon  atoms, phenyl, naphthyl or benzyl that are either unsubstituted or are substituted in the aromatic nucleus by 1 to 3 of amino, mono- or di- alkyl amino having 1 to 5 carbon atoms, alkyl having 1 to 7 carbon atoms, alkoxy having 1 to 7 carbon atoms, carboxyl, alkoxycarbonyl having 2 to 7 carbon atoms, acyl or acylamino having 1 to 5 carbon atoms,  or meso - where me is  3 alkali metal or r2 and r3 together with the associated nitrogen atom form a pyrrolidinyl, piperidyl, pipocolinyl, perhydroazepinyl, heptamethyleneimino, octamethyleneimino, indolinyl,   1,2,3,4-tetrahydroquinolinyl,    hexahydrocarbazolyl, morpholinyl, thiomorpholinyl, piperazinyl, n-alkylpiperazinyl where the alkyl group contains 1 to 4 carbon atoms, pyrazolinyl, or 3-methylpyrazolinyl group,   r4    is hydrogen, alkyl having 1 to 12 carbon atoms, alkoxy having 1 to 12 carbon atoms, halogen, amino that is either unsubstituted or is substituted by one or two off the substituents as defined for   112    and   r3,       or    it4 is phenyl, phenoxy,  benzyl or benzyloxy that is either unsubstituted or substituted in the aromatic nucleus by one to three of amino, mono- or di- alkyl amino having 1 to 5 carbon atoms, lower alkyl, lower alkoxy, carboxyl, alkoxy-carbonyl having 2 to 7 carbon atoms, acyl having 1 to 5 carbon atoms or meso3 - where me is alkali metal;   r5    is hydrogen, lower alkyl, lower alkoxy or amino which is either unsubstituted or is substituted by one or two of the substituents as defined for r2 and    ic including the heterocyclic members;   96 and r7 each  o 7    independently is the same as defined for   92    and   r3,    including the heterocyclic members thereof;   (tig)    represents 1 to 3 members independently selected from hydrogen, alkyl having 1 to 7 carbon atoms, alkoxy having 1 to 7 carbon atoms, halogen, acetamido, amino or mono- or dialkyl amino having 1 to 7 carbon atoms.   6. a composition according to any of claims 1 to 5 characterised in that the carbonylic halide is an ali   phatic ketone, a cycloalkphatic ketone, an ester of an aliphatic dicarboxylic acid or an amide of an aliphatic dicarboxylic acid.   7. a composition according to claim 6 further characterised in that at least one halogen is located on a carbon atom alpha- to a carbonyl group.   8. a composition according to any of claims 1 to 5 further characterised in that the carbonylic halide contains at least one alpha c1, br or i atom and is selected from halogenated aliphatic ketones having 3 to 13 carbon atoms, halogenated carbocyclic ketones having 4 to 8 ring carbon atoms, esters and amides of halogenated dicarboxylic acids containing up to 12 carbon atoms and esters and amides of halogenated keto acids containing up to 12 carbon atoms.   9. a composition according to any of claims 1 to 5 further characterised in that the carbonylic halide has the formula emi74.1       where   ic    is alkyl having 1 to 11 carbon atoms or said  aa alkyl containing halogen atoms;   rbb    is alkylene having 1 to 10 carbon atoms, or said alkylene containing halo    gen atoms, or abb represents a covalent bond; it is  cc    alkyl or alkoxy having 1 to 11 carbon atoms or said alkyl or alkoxy that contains halogen atoms ; mm is o or an integer from 1 to 3.   10. a composition according to any of claims 1 to 5 further characterised in that the carbonylic halide is a carbocyclic ketone having the general formula emi74.2        where e is the halogenated residue of a carbocyclic ketone which, together with the bound carbonyl groups contains from 4 to 8 carbon atoms in the ring; e can be substituted, in addition to halogen, by lower alkyl, lower alkoxy or acyl having 2 to 6 carbon atoms; nn is 1 or 2.   11. a composition according to any of claims 1 to 5 further characterised in that the carbonylic halide is an ester or amide of the general formula emi75.1       where r , is amino that is unsubstituted or substituted by one or two of lower alkyl or halogenated lower alkyl, or it   at   is alkoxy or halogenated alkoxy group having     aa' 1 to 4 carbon atoms, or 1taat is    emi75.2         where    d is alkoxy or haloalkoxy having   7    to 4 carbon atoms and -a- is alkylene or haloalkylene having 1 to 4 carbon atoms;   ilbb    is a covalent bond, alkylene or haloalkylene having 1 to 4 carbon atoms or the group; emi75.3       where a and b each independently is alkylene or haloalkylene having 1 to 4 carbon atoms; ;   rcc,    is amino that is either unsubstituted or substituted by one or two of lower alkyl or halogenated lower alkyl, or rcc' is alkoxy or haloalkoxy having 1 to 4 carbon atoms.   12. a composition according to any of the preceding claims further characterised in that it comprises:  40 to 70 percent by weight of said preformed  polymer binder;    30 to 50 percent by weight of said curable  crosslinkable or polymerizable component;  1 to 10 percent by weight of said photoinitiator;  0.01 to 2 percent by weight of said fluoran  compound;  0.1 to 5 percent by weight of carbonylic halide  and  0.1 to 10 percent by weight of amine.   13. a composition according to any of claims 1 to 11 further characterised in that it comprises:  (a) 15 to 70 percent by weight of an   et11ylen-     ically unsaturated component capable of curing  crosslinking or polymerizing under the influence  of free radicals;  (b) 10 to 50 percent by weight of a preformed  polymeric binder or of a compound capable of  curing, crosslinking or polymerizing with said  ethylenically unsaturated component under the  influence of free radicals;  (c) o.1 to 10 percent by weight of a photoinitia  tor;  (d)   0.01    to 2 percent by weight of fluoran com  pound;  (e) 0.1 to 10 percent by weight of a tertiary  amine, and  (f) 0.1 to 5 percent by weight of an amide or  lower alkyl ester of malonic, succinic or glutaric  acid containing at least one alpha-halogen which  is c1, br or i.    14. a composition according to any of the preceding claims further characterised in that it is in the form of a thin film.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
