<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0017022
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19801015
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
H01L-27/08 H01L-27/06 H01L-29/866 H01L-29/66 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
a zener diode and method of fabrication thereof.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
ibmus<sep>international business machines corporation<sep>international business machines corporationold orchard roadarmonk, n.y. 10504us<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
atwood bruce colemanus <sep>muggli raymond allenus <sep>atwood, bruce coleman <sep>muggli, raymond allen<sep>atwood, bruce colemanrr2, box 291 juniper ridgeshelburne vermontus<sep>muggli, raymond allen7030 via del riosan jose california 95139us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
this invention relates to a subsurface breakdown zener  diode having an internally protected p-n junction and a  method of fabrication thereof.  a semiconductor substrate  (10) of one conductivity type (p) has a deposit of semicon­ ductor material (p⁺) of the same conductivity type but more  heavily doped over which an epitaxial layer (14′) of semicon­ ductor material of another semiconductor conductivity type  (n) is grown and whereby the deposit becomes a buried  layer (12′).  semiconductor material of the one conductivity  type and intermediate doping is diffused into an annular  region (18) in the epitaxial layer while at the same time a  quantity of the same material is diffused into a region (20′)  centrally of and spaced from the annular region (18′).  both  diffusions are carried out to contact with the buried layer  (12′).  material (28′) of the other conductivity type and doped  more heavily than the epitaxial layer (14′) is diffused over  the centrally diffused material and carried out to convert the  first diffusion to the opposite conductivity type for a sub­ stantial depth into the epitaxial layer (14′) whereby a pn⁺  junction is formed completely beneath the surtace.  con­ tacts for the zener diode are made to the annular diffusion  region (18′) and the diffusion region (28′).  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
a zener diode and method of fabrication thereof the invention relates to a zener diode assembly and a method of fabrication thereof. the term zener diode has long been applied to two electrode semiconductor devices operating with respect to the phenomena of the breakdown in solid dielectrics below approximately 5 volts, and of the avalanche effect corresponding to the townsend discharge effect in dielectrics at potentials above approximately 5 volts. zener diode devices are widely used as potential or "voltage" regulating devices, particularly in reference potential generating circuitry. conventional ic devices very frequently include a number of zener diode devices, a number of transistor devices, and auxiliary circuit components and connections on a single semiconductor wafer or chip. as the electronics arts have progressed, better and better zener diode devices and circuit arrangements have been developed. examples of such improved zener diode circuits are found in the technical literature. there have been problems however with the prior art devices, for example, especially with respect to variations of the breakdown voltage, as a function of time and/or changes in temperature. it has been suggested that the causes of instability are related to the presence of the passivating insulating layer of silicon dioxide which lies adjacent to the silicon facing surface where avalanche breakdown takes place in the conventional zener diode devices. the prior art contains literature and patents that have proposed fabricating zener diode devices with subsurface avalanche breakdown regions, and to the extent that they are able, these prior art arrangements have proven successful. however, among the drawbacks of the present state of the art subsurface zener diodes are that an n diffusion into a p base results in a p pinch resistance that tends to a high dynamic impedance. another drawback resides in considerable deformation damage due to diffusing a high emitter n+ concentration into a highp concentration resulting in problems in reliability and consequent reduction in yield. u.s. patent 3,881,179 discloses a zener diode structure wherein the breakdown is subsurface due to enhanced p diffusion under an n diffusion, but wherein there still is a pn junction at the surface over which there is an e field tending to ionize contaminants on that surface. u.s. patent 4,079,402 discloses a zener diode structure, wherein an ion implanted layer is arranged to establish the avalanche breakdown below the surface, and wherein there also is a portion of the p-n junction at the facing surface. a pinch resistance component also exists resulting in a high dynamic impedance. a lower dynamic impedance is provided by a zener diode structure disclosed in u.s. patent no. 4,136,349. this structure in fact has a part of the avalanche breakdown junction at the surface but this is nullified in effect by a shallow doping-extending laterally of the junction to overcome the problem at least in part. none of these patents shows or suggests a structure according to the invention wherein the entire avalanche breakdown pn junction is completely below the surface and the dynamic impedance is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims    1. a zener diode assembly, characterised in that the assembly comprises, a semiconductor substrate (10) of a first semiconductor conductivity type material (p), a layer (14') of semiconductor material of a second semiconductor conductivity type (n) arranged over said substrate (10) and extending from said substrate to a facing surface, a layer (12') of said first semiconductor conductivity type buried in said substrate (10) and in the first said layer (14') and beneath said facing surface, a first portion (28') of semiconductor material of said second semiconductor conductivity type arranged in said layer (14') of semiconductor material and extending from said facing surface toward said buried layer (12') and spaced therefrom,  a second portion (18') of semiconductor material of said first semiconductor conductivity type arranged in said layer (14') and spaced from said first portion (28') and extending from said facing surface to said buried layer (12'), and a third portion (20') of semiconductor material of said first semiconductor conductivity type arranged in said layer (14') and spaced from said second portion (18') and contained between the surface of said first portion (28') remote from said facing surface and said buried layer (12'), said buried layer (12') having a dopant concentration higher than that of said substrate (10) and said third portion (20') having a dopant concentration intermediate those of said substrate (10) and said buried layer (12').    2. a zener diode assembly as claimed in claim 1, including a first element of conductive material electrically contacting said first portion, and a second element of conductive material electrically contacting said second portion.      3. a zener diode assembly as claimed in claim 1 or 2, including a fourth portion of semiconductor material of said second semiconductor conductivity type interposed between said substrate and said buried layer.    4. a zener diode assembly as claimed in claim 3, where said fourth portion has a dopant concentration substantially equal to that of said first portion.    5. a zener diode assembly as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein said second portion is arranged entirely around said first portion.    6. a zener diode assembly as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein said first portion has a dopant concentration greater than that of said layer of said second conductivity type arranged over said substrate.    7. a method for producing a zener diode assembly characterised in that the method comprises the steps of selecting a substrate (10) of a first semiconductor conductivity type material (p), depositing on said substrate (10) semiconductor material of said first conductivity type having a dopant concentration higher than that of said substrate (10), growing a layer (14') of semiconductor material of a second semiconductor conductivity type (n) over said substrate (10) and said deposited material whereby, due to subsequent steps, said deposited material diffuses into said substrate and into said grown layer (14') and becomes a buried layer (12') beneath a facing surface of said grown layer (14'),  diffusing a quantity of semiconductor material (20') of said first conductivity  type into said grown layer (14') centrally of said buried layer (12') and another quantity of said material (18') in a region surrounding and spaced apart from said centrally arranged quantity with both of said quantities being diffused into contact with said buried layer (12'), and said quantities having a dopant concentration intermediate that of said substrate (10) and said buried layer (12'), diffusing another quantity (28') of semiconductor material of said second conductivity type and higher concentration than that of said grown layer (14') into said centrally located diffusion of said first conductivity type and into a region of said grown layer (14') and.  spaced from said diffusion of said other quantity (18') for subsequently producing an integral region of said second semiconductor conductivity type at said facing surface and a semiconductor junction of said first and said second semiconductor conductivity types within said grown layer (14').     8. a method as claimed in claim 7, including forming electric contacts on a portion of said centrally located diffusion of semiconductor material of said second conductivity type and on a portion of said diffusion of said other quantity of material of said first conductivity type.    9. a method as claimed in claim 7 or 8, including diffusing material of said second conductivity type into said substrate over which said material of said first conductivity type is deposited.    10. a method as claimed in any one of claims 7, 8 and 9, wherein said diffusing steps are replaced by ion implantation steps.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
