<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0015754
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800917
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
H04B-1/68 H04B-5/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
audio transmission system.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
design electronicsgb<sep>design electronics limited<sep>design electronics limited100 chalk farm road london nw1 8eh gb <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
osborn peter gordongb<sep>osborn, peter gordon<sep>osborn, peter gordon100 chalk farm roadlondon nw1 8ehgb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
for the transmission of a number of channels of high  quality audio signals via an inductive loop (11), a transmitter  includes a digital sinewave pilot tone generator (7, 8, 9), a  number of multipliers (4), phaselocked to the pilot tone, to  generate sub-carrier signals which are mutually different  integer multiples of the pilot tone frequency.  the sub-­ carriers are modulated by the audio signals in respective  balanced modulators (3), and the upper sidebands are sup­ pressed (5).  the lower sidebands are mixed (6) and are fed  to the loop with the pilot tone.  a receiver coupled to the loop  regenerates the sub-carriers by receiving the pilot tone and  multiplying the pilot tone frequency (18) by the same inte­ gers as in the transmitter.  the resultant sub-carriers, which  are also phase-locked to the pilot tone, are used to demo­ dulate (19) the received lower sidebands.  the resultant  audio signals are fed to a mixer (21) with channel faders  (108-112) and thence to a stereo amplifier (127, 128, 129)  feeding a common output so that all audio channels can be  received simultaneously at a transducer (23) such as stereo  headphones, with any desired balance between the chan­ nels.  pre-emphasis is applied to the lower sidebands (5) at  the transmitter, and the signals are de-emphasised (22) at  the receiver.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
audio transmission system this invention relates to the transmission of audio frequency signals via an inductive loop. systems are known for transmitting speech signals via inductive loops positioned round buildings or round individual rooms. such systems are commonly used for the simultaneous transmission of translations of conference proceedings into various languages. a separate channel is provided for each language, and only one channel can be selected at a time at any receiving point. these systems are designed for the transmission of only narrow bandwidth speech signals, and are not suitable for use in transmitting high quality music signals. in certain locations, particularly in sound recording studios, it is necessary to be able to feed several music channels to each of a number of output positions within the studio so that, for example, several previously recorded tracks on a magnetic tape can be played back to each of a number of musicians. systems for effecting this are commonly known as "foldbacb" systems. in known foldback systems, headphone jacks are provided on output boxes at the various positions, and these boxes are connected to the recording system via cables which trail across the studio and can become a nuisance. it is an object of the present invention to provide a high quality audio transmission system in which a plurality of music channels are transmitted via an inductive loop to each.of a number of receiving positions. according to the invention, an audio frequency transmission system comprises an inductive loop to produce a magnetic field within a receiving area; a transmitter, including means to generate a reference frequency signal, means responsive to the reference frequency signal to generate a plurality of sub-carrier signals of mutually different frequencies, means to modulate the sub-carrier signals with respective audio frequency signals which are to be transmitted and to suppress the sub-carrier frequencies from the resultant modulated signals, and means to feed the modulated signals and the reference frequency signal to the inductive loop to produce said magnetic field; and receiving apparatus, including means to be located within said receiving area so as to be inductively coupled to the loop to receive the modulated signals and the reference frequency signal, means responsive to the reference frequency signal to generate in the receiving apparatus a plurality of sub-carrier signals having the same frequencies as the sub-carrier signals generated in the transmitter, and means responsive to the subcarrier signals generated in the receiving apparatus to demodulate the received modulated signals thereby recovering the respective audio frequency signals. an embodiment of the invention will now be described, by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which: figs.1 and 2 are schematic block diagrams of a transmitter and a receiving unit, respectively, of an inductive loop transmission system, fig.3 is a schematic block diagram of an oscillator circuit of the transmitter, fig.4 is a schematic block diagram of a modulation circuit of the transmitter, fig.5 is a schematic block diagram of a transmitter filtering and pre-emphasis circuit, fig. 6
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims   1. an audio frequency transmission system, comprising an inductive loop to produce a magnetic field within a receiving area; a transmitter to feed signals to the loop to cause production of the magnetic field; and a receiver including means to be located within the receiving area so as to be inductively coupled to the loop to receive the transmitted signals;  characterised in that the transmitter includes means (7, 8, 9) to generate a reference frequency signal, means (4) responsive to the reference frequency signal to generate a plurality of sub-carrier signals of mutually different frequencies, a modulator (3, 5) to modulate the subcarrier signals with respective audio frequency signals which are to be transmitted and to suppress the subcarrier frequencies from the resultant modulated signals, and means (6, 10) to feed the modulated signals and the reference frequency signal to the inductive loop (11) to produce said magnetic field;  and in that the receiving apparatus includes means (86, 12) to receive the modulated signals and the reference frequency signal, means (18) responsive to the reference frequency signal to generate in the receiving apparatus a plurality of subcarrier signals having the same frequencies as the subcarrier signals generated in the transmitter, and means (19) responsive to the sub-carrier signals generated in the receiving apparatus to demodulate the received modulated signals thereby recovering the respective audio frequency signals.   2. a system as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that the means in the transmitter to generate a plurality of sub-carrier signals comprises a corresponding plurality of oscillators (4) which are phase-locked to the reference frequency signal0  3. a system as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, characterised in that the means to modulate the subcarrier signals and to suppress said signals from the resultant modulated signals comprises a balanced modulator (3) and filtering means (5).   4. a system as claimed in any preceding claim, characterised in that the means to generate a reference frequency signal comprises a crystal-controlled digital sinewave generator (7, 8, 9).   5. a system as claimed in any preceding claim, characterised in that the modulated signals comprise only the lower sideband signals.   6. a system as claimed in claim 5, characterised in that the reference frequency signal has a frequency of   20khz,    and the sub-carrier signal frequencies are integral multiples of 20khz.   7. a system as claimed in any preceding claim, characterised in that the means in the receiving apparatus to generate a plurality of sub-carrier signals comprises a corresponding plurality of oscillators (18) which are phase-locked to the reference frequency signal.   8. a system as claimed in any preceding claim, characterised by means (15, 13) in the receiving apparatus responsive to the magnitude of the received reference frequency signal to control the gain of the receiving apparatus to tend to compensate for changes in said magnitude.   9. a system as claimed in any preceding claim, characterised by, in the receiving apparatus, a battery supply for energising the receiving apparatus, and means (16) responsive to the magnitude of the received reference frequency signal to de-energise part of the receiving apparatus if said magnitude falls below a predetermined value.   10. a system as claimed in any preceding claim, characterised by, in the receiving apparatus, a plurality of faders (108.- 112), corresponding to the plurality of  sub-carrier signals, for adjusting the levels of the respective demodulated signals; and means (114 - 132) to feed the demodulated signals from the faders to a common load.    11. a system as claimed in claim 10, characterised in that the means to feed the demodulated signals to the load includes a stereo amplifier (119, 120, 127-129) having two inputs to either of which any of the demodulated signals can be fed selectively.   12. a system as claimed in claim 11, characterised in that the load comprises stereo headphones (23).   13. a system as claimed in any preceding claim, characterised by means (5) in the transmitter to emphasise higher frequency components of the audio frequency signals relative to the lower frequency components; and means (22) in the receiving apparatus to de-emphasise said higher frequency components in the demodulated signals0  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
