<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0014413
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800820
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B01J-37/30 B01J-23/16 B01J-37/00 B01D-53/86 <main>B01J-23/34</main> B01J-23/34 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
process of producing rare earth-manganese oxidation catalysts.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
carus corpus<sep>carus corporation<sep>carus corporation1500 eighth streetlasalle illinois 61301us <sep>carus corporation  <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
mein peter guenter  <sep>reidies arno helmut<sep>mein, peter guenter<sep>reidies, arno helmut<sep>mein, peter guenter1516 campbell avenuelasalle illinois 61301us<sep>reidies, arno helmut1137 fourth streetlasalle illinois 61301us<sep>mein, peter guenter<sep>reidies, arno helmut<sep>mein, peter guenter1516 campbell avenuelasalle illinois 61301us<sep>reidies, arno helmut1137 fourth streetlasalle illinois 61301us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
alkali metal delta manganese dioxide hydrage, which is  obtained as a by-product in the industrial oxidation of  organics by kmno₄ is subjected to ion exchange reaction with  rare earth ions of the ceria subgroup (viz.  cerium, lanthanum,  etc. ).  by employing favorable temperature and ph conditions,  a reaction product can be produced containing as little as 0. 03  moles of alkali metal per mole of manganese, and up to one  mole of ceria rare earth per six moles of manganese.  the  separated product is prepared for catalytic use in the form of  dried porous pellets.  the resulting oxidation catalyst has high  efficiency, long life, and optimum activity at reasonable  temperatures.  the catalyst can be used advantageously for  applications such as the oxidation and deodorization of  exhaust gases from paint drying ovens.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
rare earth-manganese oxidation catalysts and process of producing oxidation catalysts containing manganese and a polyvalent metal, such as copper, cobalt, or silver, have been in commercial use for many years. they are referred to as "hopcalites". the hopcalite catalyst containing copper with manganese has been commonly used in gas masks io- oxidation of carbon monoxide. hopcalites may be formed by the coprecipitation of mno2, with cu(oh)2 or other polyvalent metal hydroxide. (sec, for example, united states patent 1, 345, 323 of 1920). manganese catalysts containing copper or other polyvalent metal have also beer prepared from a solution of the metal salt and potassium permanganate in the presence of hydrogen peroxide. (united states patent 1 971 168 (1934), and united states patent 1 995 353 (1935).) the resulting catalyst is an acid manganate of the copper or other polyvalent metal, such as, for example, cu(hmno3)2 as far as is known, such acid manganate catalysts have not found commercial applications. dodman et al in u.s. patent 3 700 605 (1972) describe a procedure for preparing a manganese catalyst by first forming a manganese oxide precipitate from potassium permanganate in the presence of alkali metal hydroxide. the recovered precipitate is resuspended in water, & d an aqueous solution of a salt of a polyvalent metal is introduced into the suspension to react therewith. the patent reco-mends the use of cobalt, copper, silver or lead ions to replace the alkali metal in the pre cipntate. this ion exchange reaction is described as being carried out at ambient tenperature (e.g. 200c). no ph adjustment is disclosed. dodman et al propose that an inert insoluble substance (e.g. kieselguhr or silica) should be suspended in the potassium permanganate solution as it is converted to the manganese dioxide precipitate, thereby providing a catalyst support. dodman et al did not propose the use of "by-product" manganese dioxide as a starting material for catalyst preparation. however, the by-product manganese dioxide resulting from the use of potassiun per^nnganate to o.- idize organic substances under alkaline conditions is chenically similar to the manganese dioxide precipitate prepared by dodman et al. chemically, they are both alkali metal delta manganese dioxide hydrate. during the course of the experimental work leading to the present invention, it was found that aqueous solutions of cobalt or copper nitrate could be reacted with by-product manganese dioxide under the conditions described by dodnan et al and that the resulting products had catalytic activity for hydrocarbon oxidation. however, for certain applications (viz. paint drying ovens) the cobalt or copper catalysts are not as efficient and do not have as long catalyst life as desirable. when an attempt was nade to react a solution of cerium nitrate with by-product manganese dioxide under the conditions described by dolman et al, the resulting product still contained an appreciable amount of alkali metal and was not suitable for use as an oxidation catalyst. further discoveries lead to the development of a process for producing rare earth-manganese oxidation catalysts of superior properties. this catalyst and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
   claitis:      1.   the    process of producing a rare   earth-ri. anganese    oxidation catalyst by ion exchange reaction, comprising the steps of:  (a) forming a suspension of finely-divided alkali  metal delta manganese dioxide hydrate in an  aqueous solution   containing    rare earth metal  salt ions, said suspension having an initial  ph of from 5.0 to 7.0, the rare earth metal  ions being provided by one or more rare earths  of the ceria subgroup;  (b) reacting said   manganese    dioxide with said rare  earth metal ions at a temperature of at least  30 c and under acidic ph conditions; ;  (c) continuing said reaction until the manganese  reaction product contains not over 0.05 moles  of bound   alkali    metal per mole of manganese  and at least one mole of total ceria subgroup  rare earth metal per 5 to 7   moles    of manganese,  (d) separating said reaction product from said  aqueous solution; and  (e) preparing dried porous catalytic pellets from  said reaction product.   2. the process of claim    <     in   which    said manganese dioxide is by-product manganese dioxide containing sodium and potassium.   3. the process of claim 1 or claim 2 in which said rare earth metal ions are cerium ions.        4.    the process of claim   n    or claim 2 in   which    said rare earth metal ions are lanthanum ions.   5. the process of claim 1 or claim 2 in   which    said rare earth metal ions comprise a mixture of ceria subgroup ions including at least cerium, lanthanum, and   neodynium    ions.   6. the products produced by the processes of claims   1    to 5.   7. the process of claim 1 or claim 2 in   which    said reaction is carried out at a temperature of from 30 to 75 c and at a ph of from 5.5 to 6.5.   8. the process of claim 1 or claim 2 in which said reaction is continued until said reaction product contains not over   0.03    moles of alkali metal per mole of manganese.   9. the process of claim 1 or claim 2 in   which    said reaction is continued until said reaction product contains approximately one mole of total ceria group rare earth metal per each six moles of manganese.   10. the process of claim 1 or claim 2 in   which    said ceria group rare earth metal ions are composed predominantly of cerium, lanthanum, and neodymium ions.   11. the process of claim 1 in   which    said catalytic pellets are prepared from a paste comprising a mixture of said reaction product in hydrated form and   water-contain-    ing bentonite, said paste being extruded to form pellets, and said pellets being dried to a porous   non-agglomerat-    ing condition.   12. the product produced by the process of claim 11.     13. the process of claim   1    in   which    said   catalytic    pellets are prepared from a paste comprising a mixture of said reaction product in hydrated form and a partially peptized hydrated alumina catalyst carrier, said paste being dried to remove water.   14. the product produced by the process of claim 13.   15. the process of producing a rare   earth-nangqnese    oxidation catalyst by ion exchange reaction,   comprising    the steps of:  (a) introducing finely-divided alkali   mets    delta  manganese dioxide hydrate into an aqueous  solution of rare earth metal salt ions to form  a reaction suspension, said suspension having  a   pit    of from 5.5 to 6.5, the rare earth metal  ions being provided by one or more rare earths  of the ceria subgroup;  (b) reacting said manganese dioxide in said sus  pension with said rare earth metal ions at  a temperature of from 30 to 750c and at acid  ph's of not over 6.5; ;  (c) continuing said reaction until the reaction  product contains not over 0.03 moles of total  bound potassium and sodium per mole of manganese  and approximately one mole of total ceria  group rare earth metal per each six moles of  manganese;  (d) separating said reaction product from said  aqueous solution; and  (e) preparing dried porous catalytic pellets from  said reaction product by forming a paste from    a mixture of said reaction product in hydrate  form and water-containing particulate bentonite,  extruding said paste to form pellets, and    hiring    said pellets to a porous non-agglomerat  ing condition.   16. the product produced by the process of claim 15.   17. the process of producing a rare   earth-manoanese    oxidation catalyst by ion exchange reaction, consisting essentially of the steps of:  (a) introducing finely-divided alkali metal delta  manganese dioxide hydrate into an aqueous  solution of rare earth metal salt ions to  form a reaction suspension, said suspension    hats g    a   pit    of from 5.5 to 6.5, the rare earth  metal ions being provided by one or more rare  earths of the ceria subgroup;  (b) reacting said manganese dioxide in said sus  pension with said rare earth metal ions at a  temperature of from 30 to 750c and at acid    pb's    of not over 6.5; ;  (c) continuing said reaction until the reaction  product contains not over 0.03 moles of total  bound potassium and sodium per mole of  manganese and approximately one mole of total  ceria group rare earth metal per each six moles  of manganese;  (d) separating said reaction product from said  aqueous solution; and  (e) preparing dried porous catalytic pellets from  said reaction product by forming a paste from    a mixture of said reaction product in hydrate  form and partially peptized particulate  hydrated alpha alumina,   extradino    said paste  to form pellets, and drying and calcining  said pellets to remove water and to convert  said hydrated alpha alumina to gamma alumina.    18. the products produced by the process of claim 17.   19. the process of claim 17 in which said rare earth metal ions are cerium ions.   20. the product produced by the process of claim 19.   21. the process of claim 17 in   which    said rare earth metal ions are lanthanum ions.   22. the product produced by the process of claim 21.   23. the process of claim 17 in   which    said rare earth metal ions   comprise    a mixture of ceria group ions including at least cerium, lanthanum, and neodymium ions 24. the product produced by the process of claim 23.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
