<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0012538
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800625
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
G09B-7/00 G09B-7/02 G09B-19/02 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
electronic learning aid
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
casio computer co ltdjp<sep>casio computer company limited<sep>casio computer company limited6-1, 2-chome, nishi-shinjukushinjuku-ku tokyo 160jp<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
iwamaru toshihusajp<sep>iwamaru, toshihusa<sep>iwamaru, toshihusa1446, kami araitokorozawa-shi saitama-kenjp<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
when a correct answer is keyed in an electronic learning aid for sequentially displaying problems of operations such as arithmetic operations, the learning aid tells an operator to the effect by a sound related. 
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
electronic learning aid the invention relates to an electronic learning aid. in recent days, a learning aid to aid a learner in learning operations such as arithmetic operations has been developed and put into practical use. the learning aid is provided with means to provide a first and a second operand in the arithmetic operation, for example, when a problem specified is entered from a key-in section, the learning aid display the problem by using the first and second operands. the device further solves the problem and stores the correct answer in the memory means. when an operator keys in the answer obtained by solving the problem displayed, the device compares the answer by the operator with that stored in the memory means. when both the answers are coincident with each other, the device displays at the display unit that the answer is correct. in this case, the display is performed in the version of symbols or by merely lighting a lamp. in this way, the conventional device tells the learner about correctness of the answer inputted only in the visualizing manner. accordingly, the visual indication by the device is not impressive to the learner. for the answers by the solver to the given number of problems, the device displays merely the number of the correct answers of them. for example, when the number of the correct answers exceeds a given number or all the answers are correct, the device visually indicates it. this also does not impress the solver. in the case of the learning aid with the time counting function, the time taken for the solving the answer may be counted in a manner that, at the start of the solving, the solver starts the time counting by operating the key-in section and stops it at the end of the solving work. the device of this type thus needs the operation in the key-in section and this operation is troublesome for the operator. accordingly, an object of the invention is to provide an electronic learning aid in which, when the answer entered by a solver is correct, a sound device is driven to sound the correctness of the answer. another object of the invention is to provide an electronic learning aid which drives a second device for each correct answer to tell a solver the correctness of the answer aurally. still another object of the invention is to provide an electronic learning aid which drives a sound device, when all or the given number of the answers are correct, to tell an solver the correctness of them aurally. yet another object of the invention is to provide an electronic learning aid which applies a drive signal to drive the sound device to a light emission element thereby to drive the light emission element in flashing manner in synchronism with the sounding, and hence tells the correctness of the answer aurally and visually as well. a further object of the invention is to provide an electronic learning aid with
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:    1. an electronic learning aid comprising:  problem preparing means for sequentially producing problems such as arithmetic operations;  means for displaying the problem produced by said problem preparing means;  key-in means for keying in the answer to the problem displayed by said display means;  judging means for judging whether the answer keyed in by said key-in means is correct or not;  drive signal output means for producing a drive signal when the answer keyed in by said key-in means is correct; and  sound means driven by the drive signal outputted from said drive signal producing means.    2. an electronic learning aid comprising:  problem preparing means for sequentially producing problems such as arithmetic operations;  means for displaying the problem produced by said problem preparing means;  key-in means for keying the answer to the problem displayed by said display means;  judging means for judging whether the answer keyed in by said key-in means is correct or not;  counting means for counting the number of the correct answers judged by said judging means;  detecting means for detecting if the answer are all correct or the number of the correct answers is a given number or more by comparing the number of the problems with the number of the correct answers counted by said counting means when the answers of all the problems previously set are keyed in by said key-in means; ;  drive signal output means for producing a drive signal when said detecting means detects that all the answers are correct or the number of the correct answers is a given number or more; and    sound means driven by the drive signal outputted from said drive signal producing means.    3. an electronic learning aid comprising:  problem preparing means for sequentially producing problems such as arithmetic operations;  means for displaying the problem produced by said problem preparing means;  key-in means for keying the answer to the problem displayed by said display means;  judging means for judging whether the answer keyed in by said key-in means is correct or not;  drive signal output means for producing a drive signal when the answer keyed in by said key-in means is correct or not;  sound means driven by the drive signal outputted from said drive signal producing means; and  light emission display means which is driven by the drive signal outputted from said drive signal producing means to make a flash in synchronism with the sounding of said sound means.    4. an electronic learning aid comprising:  problem preparing means for sequentially producing problems such as rithmetic operations;  means for displaying the problem produced by said problem preparing means;  key-in means for keying the answer to the problem displayed by said display means;  judging means for judging whether the answer keyed in by said key-in means is correct or not;  counting means for counting the number of the correct answers judged by said judging means;  detecting means for detecting if the answer are all correct or the number of the correct answers is a given number or more by comparing the number of the problems with the number of the correct answers counted by said counting means when the answers of all the problems previously set are keyed in by said key-in means; ;    drive signal output means for producing a drive signal when said detecting means detects that all the answers are correct or the number of the correct answers is a given number or more;  sound means driven by the drive signal outputted from said drive signal producing means; and  light emission display means which is driven by the drive signal outputted from said drive signal producing means to make a flash in synchronism with the sounding of said sound means.     5. an electronic learning aid comprising:  a problem preparing means;  display means for displaying the problem prepared by said problem preparing means;  key-in means for keying in the answer to the problem displayed by said display means;  time counting means to initiate a time counting operation when said problem preparing means prepares the first problem in response to a command issued from said key-in means;  control means which stops the time counting operation of said time counting means when the answers to all the problems are entered from said key-in section and displays simultaneously the contents of the time counting means.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
