<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0007660
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800206
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
G11B-7/00 G06K-17/00 G11B-27/28 G06K-19/08 G11B-7/0033 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
a microfiche information retrieval and control system utilizing machine readable microfiche and visually readable microfiche.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
news log int incus<sep>news log international inc.<sep>news log international inc.127 harmony lanewhitewater, wisconsin 53190us<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
gokey phillips eus<sep>hurlbut donovan wus<sep>sederholm emma louus<sep>terry angel fus<sep>gokey, phillips e.<sep>hurlbut, donovan w.<sep>sederholm, emma lou<sep>terry, angel f.<sep>gokey, phillips e.lima center road route 1whitewater, wisconsinus<sep>hurlbut, donovan w.route 1whitewater, wisconsinus  <sep>sederholm, emma lou516 south elizabeth streetwhitewater, wisconsinus<sep>terry, angel f.route 1whitewater, wisconsinus<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a parts management and inventory control system  includes a microfiche data base (11) of two types of microfiche  cards.  one type is machine readable only, while the other type  card bears machine readable information and visually read­ able information.  the microfiche cards bear digital informa­ tion for machine reading.  the digital information includes  information to be read as output data and/or information for  controlling a microfiche card transport or a scanner transport  in order to accurately position microfiche cards for informa­ tion retrieval.  the system may interface with a central compu­ ter (19) for parts ordering, cancellation and the like, and a  printer (14) provides a permanent business record.  the sys­ tem may also be employed in the filed of finance in order to  provide credit or bank account information with complete  privacy with respect to the identification of the person whose  account is being checked.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
description "a microfiche information retrieval and control system utilizing machine readable microfiche and visually read able microfiche" field of the invention this invention relates to microfiche information retrieval techniques, and is more particularly concerned with the provision and retrieval of digital information on a microfiche card, which information is to be retrieved for data processing purposes in, for example, a parts management and inventory control system or in an accounts management and checking system. description of the prior art it is well known in the art to provide control information on reel or cartridge or microfilm to identify frames along the length of the microfilm, this information may be in the form of alphanumeric characters which are visually read on a trial and error basis until the desired frame is properly positioned for reading in a viewer. it is also well known in the art to place control information along the edge of a strip of microfilm to be read by an optical scanner in order to place a desired frame within the viewing field of a viewer, it is also known in the art to mechanically address and position a microfiche transport, on an x-y basis, in order to register a desired frame of information within the viewing field of a viewer; however, mechanical techniques are expen- sive, and the expense increases with increased accuracy of registration, with respect to microfiche cards used in parts management and inventory control systems, such as may be used in the retail, automotive and farm equipment industries, or accounts credit check and signature card systems in the banking industry, a card is placed on an x-y transport, generally manually operated, and the desired frame is obtained, again by a trial and error method through repeated repositionings of the card until the desired frame appears on the viewer. heretofore, microfiche cards have been limited to providing, in conjunction with parts catalogues and the like, visually readable graphic illustrations and/or alphanumeric information, such as generally found in retail catalogue and parts ordering systems. to generally sum up the state of the art, alphanumeric and digital codes have been provided on reeltype microfilm for visual or electronic observation, while microfiche cards have been provided with visual indicators to identify the position of a frame within a matrix of frames on a card. the primary object of the present invention is to provide a management system for parts and accounts information retrieval. a more specific object of the invention is to provide a microfiche information retrieval system which utilizes a data base which is easily and inexpensively up-dated. another specific object of the invention is to provide a new and improved parts management and inventory control system. another specific object of the invention'is to provide a new and improved bank and credit account information checking system. according to the invention, two basic types of cut microfiche, hereinafter simply called microfiche or microfiche cards, are provided as a data base. one type of microfiche card, called a "viewer
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:    1. a combination for ensuring registration of data on a microfiche card with an optical path the combination comprising a microfiche card including a portion bearing data aligned in respect of a first predetermined line, a microfiche card carrier predeterminately located in respect of the optical path, and registration means on said carrier for engaging said card at at least two points on a second predetermined line parallel to said first predetermined line.    2. the combination of claim 1, wherein said microfiche card includes a pair of spaced apertures centered on said second predetermined line, and said registration means on said carrier includes a pair of pins spaced equal to the spacing of said apertures.    3. the combination of claim 1, wherein said microfiche card includes an edge extending along said first predetermined line, and said alignment means on said carrier includes at least one upstanding member along said second predetermined line for engaging said edge.    4. the combination of claim 3, wherein said microfiche card comprises another edge extending perpendicular to the first-mentioned edge, and said carrier includes another upstanding member located on a line perpendicular to the first-mentioned   ¯upstand-    ing member for engaging said other edge of said microfiche card.      5. a digital microfiche for use with an optical scanner, comprising a first storage area bearing optically retrievable first information arranged in a plurality of parallel rows, a second storage area bearing identification codes for at least one of said rows and first alignment codes for said one row, and a third storage area bearing second alignment codes for said one row identical to said first alignment codes, and a centering mark, said centering mark located on the centerline of said one row.    6. the digital microfiche of claim 5, comprising a centering mark, a first alignment code and a second alignment code for each of said rows.    7. the digital microfiche of claim 5, comprising a centering mark, a first alignment code and a second alignment code for at least two spaced apart rows.    8. a digital microfiche for use with an optical scanner, which is movable relative thereto, comprising a microfiche card including a header and a body, at least one information bearing frame on said body including a plurality of parallel rows of digital information extending generally perpendicular to said header, at least one centering mark located adjacent said header and on the centerline of a respective row, a first alignment code on said body at one end of and extending tranversely of the respective row, and a second alignment code located at the end of the respective row opposite said first alignment code, said first and second alignment codes defining any skew of the row with respect to the scanner when the scanner is reading said centering mark.      9. the digital microfiche of claim 8, comprising a separate centering mark for each of said rows, and wherein said first and second alignment codes extend transversely across all of said rows.    10. the digital microfiche of claim 8, comprising a second centering mark spaced from said one centering mark on the centerline of a corresponding row, and other first and second alignment codes at opposite ends of said corresponding row to recheck alignment at said corresponding row as the relative movement of the scanner and card positions the scanner at said corresponding row.    11. a digital microfiche for use with an optical scanner which extends in a first direction and is movable relative the microfiche in a second direction, comprising a microfiche member including a body storing digital information arranged in parallel rows which extend in the first direction, a plurality of centering marks, each of said centering marks located on the centerline of a respective row, a first band of code marks including a plurality of first code marks which constitute the addresses of each of said rows, said first code marks including first alignment marks, and a second band of code marks including second alignment marks, indicate any skew from the first direction between the scanner and a row when the scanner is located to read the respective centering mark.    12. the digital microfiche of claim 11, comprising a start-of-data mark and an end-of-data mark located immediately adjacent and at respective ends of said rows of digital data.    13. the digital microfiche of claim 11, wherein said first and second alignment marks are identical.      14, the digital microfiche of claim 11, comprising information frames which include said rows of digital information, and wherein said first band of code marks includes frame identification marks.    15. in a microfiche of the type which has information bearing frames spaced apart in rows which extend in at least a first direction, which frames are to be permeated by a light beam, the microfiche to be carried by a transport which is movable in at least the first direction, the improvement comprising a plurality of tracking lines on said microfiche extending in said first direction in the spaces between and adjacent each of said rows of frames to be sensed by a light sensor, a plurality of row identification codes between said tracking lines associated with and defining a frame address along the first direction to be read by the light sensor, and frame stop codes in the spaces between said tracking lines and at predetermined locations with respect to said frames, to be read by the light sensor.    16. the microfiche of claim 15, wherein said frame stop codes are spaced a predetermined distance from the centers of said frames.    17. the microfiche of claim 15, wherein said frame stop codes are spaced a predetermined distance from certain corners of said frames.        18    the microfiche of claim 15, wherein the frames are arranged spaced apart in an array so as to extend in the first and a second direction, and said tracking lines are first tracking lines and said row identification codes are first row identification codes, and said frame stop codes are first frame stop codes, and comprising a plurality of second tracking lines between said frames and extending in the second direction to be sensed by the light sensor, and a plurality of second row identification codes between said second tracking lines and defining a   frame    address along the second direction to be read by the light sensor, and a plurality of second frame stop codes in the spaces between said second tracking lines and at predetermined locations with respect to said frames, to be read by the light sensor.     19. the microfiche of claim 15, comprising auxiliary data codes between said tracking lines.    20. the microfiche of claim 19, wherein said auxiliary codes are between first and second, and second and third, tracking lines and are redundant.    21. a microfiche reading system for a microfiche which has rows of digital information extending in a first direction, a centering mark on the centerline of at least one of said rows, a first alignment code at one end of the one row, and a second alignment code at the opposite end of the one row, comprising a scanner including an optical sensor which extends in the first direction and which is mounted for movement, relative the microfiche, inthe first direction and which is pivotally mounted for arcuate movement, relative the   microfiche, a sensor position drive and a sensor alignment drive, first means connected to said sensor position drive and operable to cause positioning of said sensor adjacent the one row of digital information in response to   detection    of the first alignment code,  and operable to energize said sensor position drive until said sensor senses the centering mark, second means operable to compare the first and second alignment codes sensed by said sensor and provide a skew error, in response to misalignment of said sensor and the one row, to cause said sensor alignment drive to pivot said sensor to correct for the skew.    22. the microfiche reading system of claim 1, wherein each row has a centering mark, a first alignment code and a second alignment code and wherein said first means comprises a row address input means, a sensor register connected to said sensor for storing information read by said sensor, a counter connected to said sensor register for counting rows, and an increment register connected to said sensor register to cause said position drive to incrementally position said sensor until a centering mark is detected.    23. the microfiche reading system of claim 22, wherein said second means comprises a sensor alignment register connected to said sensor register for storing sensed first and second alignment codes, said first and second means including a programmed comparator register having inputs connected to said input means, said counter, said increment register and said alignment register, and outputs connected to said position and alignment drives, for causing positioning and alignment of said sensor in response to the data received at its inputs.      24. a microfiche reading system for positioning, in a viewing position, a selected frame of a microfiche which has a plurality of spaced-apart frames arranged in rows which. are aligned in at least one direction and which frames have respective address codes stored on the microfiche, comprising a microfiche transport and an optical scanner, a selected one of said transport and optical scanner being movable to provide relative movement therebetween along the one direction, said transport supporting the microfiche adjacent said optical scanner, said scanner operable to read said stored addresses and provide corresponding first address signals corresponding to the frame address being scanned, register means connected to said scanner for storing said first address signals, drive means including positioning means connected to the movable one of said microfiche transport and optical.  scanner and operable to move the same along the one direction, address input means for generating second address signals representing a selected frame to be positioned at the viewing position, and control means connected to said drive means and to said address input means and said register means for comparing said first and second address signals and causing operation of said drive means in response to differences therebetween.    25. the system of claim 24, wherein the microfiche includes a plurality of parallel   tracking' lines    extending along the rows of frames, and wherein said scanner includes track scanning means for detecting the tracking lines and providing tracking signals, said drive means includes error means for causing movement in a second direction perpendicular to the one direction,  and said system comprises a tracking comparator connected to said track scanning means for comparing said tracking signals to reference tracking signals and providing tracking error signals to said error means to cause compensating movement to correct tracking.    26. a microfiche reading system for positioning, in a viewing position, a selected frame of a microfiche which has a plurality of frames arranged spaced-apart in an array of columns and rows and frame column and row addresses codes stored on the microfiche in the spaces between the columns and the rows, respectively, comprising address input means operable to generate selected column and row address signals corresponding to a desired frame to be viewed, a microfiche transport for supporting the microfiche and including first positioning means operable in response to first positioning signals to move the microfiche along the column direction and second position means operable in response to second positioning signals to move the microfiche along the row direction,  optical scanning means adjacent said microfiche transport for reading said column and row address codes and producing corresponding column and row address signals, control means connected to said scanning means and said address input means and to said transport for comparing said selected and corresponding address signals and generating the first and second positioning signals in response to differences between the selected and read addresses.      27. a data record to be read with an optical scanner which extends in a first direction, comprising a microfiche card, said microfiche card including at least one first information storage area storing output data in rows which extend in the first direction, at least one second information storage area storing row center data aligned with and indicating the centers of the rows of output data, third and fourth, spaced apart, information storage areas, said third information storage area storing row identification data for each row of output data, and each of said third and fourth information storage areas storing, for each row of output data, skew data oriented with respect to the first direction such that the scanner must read different skew data when there is skew of the scanner with respect to a row of output data.    28. the data record of claim 27, wherein said third and fourth information storage areas lie on opposite sides of said first information storage area.    29. the data record of claim 27, wherein said second information storage area comprises a plurality of center marks extending in a row in a second direction.    30. the data record of claim 29, wherein said third and fourth information storage areas lie on opposite sides of said first information storage area.    31. the data record of claim 30, wherein said third information area lies between said first and second information areas.    32. the data record of claim 27, wherein said output data is in digital form.    33. the data record of claim 32, wherein said output data comprises com generated data.      34. the data record of claim 27, wherein said row identification is in digital form.    35. the data record of claim 27, wherein said skew data is in digital form.    36. the data record of claim 35, wherein said skew data comprises a pair of identical digital codes located in said third and fourth information storage areas, respectively.    37. the data record of claim 27, wherein said information storage areas are carried across said microfiche card in the order of second, third, first and fourth information storage areas.    38. a data record to be read by an optical scanner which extends in a first direction, comprising a microfiche data carrier, a plurality of parallel rows of output data borne by said data carrier, a plurality of first marks borne by said data carrier extending in a row in a second direction, each mark aligned centered of a respective row of output data, a plurality of second marks adjacent and identifying respective rows of output data, a plurality of third marks forming a first digital skew code at and on each side of a centerline through each first mark and its respective row of output data, a plurality of fourth marks forming a second digital skew code identical to the first digital skew code at and on each side of each of the centerlines, said skew codes defining skew upon misalignment of the scanner and a centerline.     39. a data record to be scanned in a first direction by an optical scanner, comprising a microfiche card including a plurality of rows of digital output information, each of said rows extending parallel to each other of said rows and perpendicular to the direction of scanning.   40. the data record of claim   39,    comprising a pair of skew codes, each skew code located spaced from the other skew code at and on each side of   thecenter-    line of the first row to define skew misalignment between the scanner and the centerline, at the beginning of a scan.    41. a method of aligning an optical sensor with a row of digital information carried by a microfiche, comprising the steps of applying an address code for the row on the microfiche to identify the row, including first alignment data at one end of the row, applying a center mark on the centerline of the row, applying second alignment data on the microfiche at the opposite end of the row, scanning across the microfiche until the address code is sensed, continuing scanning until the center mark is sensed, reading and comparing the first and second alignment codes to determine any skew between the centerline of the sensor and the centerline of the row.    42. the method of claim 41, comprising the further steps of correcting skew between the sensor and the row.    43. the method of claim 42, comprising the further step of scanning the digital information of the row and generating corresponding output signals.    44. a method of positioning a frame of a microfiche at a viewing position, comprising the steps of applying digital address codes along a row of frames, applying a frame stop code for each frame on the microfiche, scanning across the row of frames with an optical sensor until a desired address code is sensed, and continuing scanning until a frame stop code is sensed.      45. the method of claim 44, further comprising the steps of applying a plurality of parallel tracking lines on the microfiche parallel to the row of frames, sensing the tracking lines while scanning for the desired address code, and correcting the relative positions of the sensor and microfiche to maintain all tracking lines within the sensing range of the sensor.    46. in a microfiche of the type which has information bearing frames spaced apart in rows which extend in at least a first direction, which frames are to be permeated by a light beam, the microfiche to be carried by a transport which is movable in at least the first direction, the improvement comprising at least one tracking line on said microfiche extending in said first direction parallel to said rows of frames to be sensed by a light sensor, a plurality of row identification codes associated with and defining frame addresses on said microfiche along the first direction to be read by the light sensor, and frame stop codes at predetermined locations with respect to said frames, to be read by the light sensor.    47. apparatus for reading a microfiche which bears rows of digital information and addresses for the rows of digital information, comprising microfiche support means for receiving a digitized microfiche thereon, an optical sensor for reading the digital information on the microfiche, transport means mounting one of said support means and sensor for movement one relative to the other, input means for selectively inputting the row addresses, control means connected between said input means and said transport means and responsive to an  address to cause said transport means to position the addressed row of the microfiche in alignment with said sensor, and output means connected to said sensor, including display means for displaying the addressed information.    48. apparatus for reading a microfiche which bears areas of digital information, comprising scanning means for optically scanning the areas of digital information in a predetermined sequence to generate digital signals corresponding to the stored information, and means connected to said scanning means for receiving and storing the digital signals.    49. a method of reading a microfiche which bears areas of information thereon, comprising the steps of optically scanning and generating electrical signals representing the information, and storing information representing the electrical signals.    '50. apparatus for reading a microfiche which carries digital information, comprising scanning means for optically scanning the microfiche and producing digital signals, converter means connected to said scanning means for converting the digital signals into other signals representing graphic information, and display means connected to said converter means and responsive to said other signals to display the graphic information.    51. the apparatus of claim 50, wherein said converter means comprises a video generator, and said display means is a television receiver.    52. the apparatus of claim 50, wherein said converter comprises a decoder, and said display means comprises an alphanumeric display unit.      53. a method of reading a microfiche which carries information, comprising the steps of optically scanning and generating first electrical signals representing the information, converting the first electrical signals into second electrical signals, and applying the second electrical signals to a display unit to display images corresponding to the scanned information.    54. the method of claim 53, wherein the step of converting is further defined as converting the first electrical signals into video signals.    55. the method of claim 53, wherein the step of generating is further defined as generating digital first electrical signals and the step of converting is further defined as decoding the digital first signals into digital second signals representing alphanumeric characters.    56. a parts management and inventory control system comprising a plurality of first microfiche, each of said first microfiche including a first header and a first body, said first body including addressed first areas of optically viewable parts information and an index area bearing parts descriptions and corresponding first addresses, and said header bearing indicia designating the parts contained on that microfiche, a plurality of second microfiche, each of said second microfiche including a second header and a second body, said second header bearing indicia identifying the respective second microfiche, and said body including addressed second areas of digital information each including manufacturer's part number and price,  said viewable parts  information on said first body including for each respective part a locator number which includes a first portion which is the identifying indicia of the corresponding second microfiche and a second portion which constitutes the address of the respective part information on that second microfiche, a viewer including a microfiche viewer transport means for receiving a first microfiche and an optical system having a viewing screen, said viewer also including homing means operable to position said viewer transport means such that said index area is projected on said viewing screen, and first key-in addressing means operable in response to keying-in a first address to position said transport means such that a desired addressed first area is projected on said viewing screen, a scanner including an optical scanning sensor means for receiving a second microfiche,   and second key-in addressing means operable in response to keying-in a second portion of a locator number to cause said sensor means to scan the digital information identified by the keyed-in second portion of the locator number, an alphanumeric display connected to said scanner, and display activation means connected to said scanner for converting and applying the digital information to said display means.    57. the apparatus of claim 56, wherein each of said first microfiche comprises, in each of said first area, pictorial views of the parts and alphanumeric descriptions of the parts.    58. the apparatus of claim 56, wherein each of said second microfiche comprises, in each of said second areas, digital information stating whether the respective part is carried in stock.   59. a parts management and inventory control system comprising a plurality of first microfiche, each of said first microfiche including a first header and a first body, said first body including addressed first areas of optically viewable parts information and an index area bearing parts descriptions and corresponding first addresses, and said header bearing indicia designating the parts contained on that microfiche, a plurality of second microfiche, each of said second microfiche including a second header and a second body, said second header bearing indicia identifying the respective second microfiche, and said body including addressed second areas of digital information each including manufacturer's part number and price,  said viewable parts information on said first body including for each respective part a locator number which includes a first portion which is the identifying indicia of the corresponding second microfiche and a second portion which constitutes the address of the respective part information on that second microfiche, a viewer including an optical system, a viewing screen, transport means for receiving and positioning a first microfiche with respect to said optical system, a scanner including an optoelectric scanning sensor means for receiving and scanning a second microfiche, an alphanumeric display means, and control means connected to said viewer, said scanner and said alphanumeric display means, said control means including address input means including pre-programmed home address means and selectively operable addressing keys,  a programmed control circuit connected to said  viewer transport means, to said scanner and to said address input means, first activation means connected to said control circuit and operable to cause said control circuit to position said transport means so that said index area appears on said viewer screen to provide a parts address to be selectively keyed-in with said addressing keys, second activation means connected to said control circuit and operable to cause said control circuit to position said transport means so that the addressed first area appears on said viewer screen to provide the corresponding information including the desired locator number whose second portion is to be selectively keyed-in with said addressing keys to access a second microfiche identified by the first portion of said locator number,  and third activation means connected to said control circuit and operable to cause said control circuit to operate said scanner to read the addressed second area and apply the read information to said alphanumeric display means.    60. the system of claim 59, and further comprising a printer connected to said control circuit, and fourth activation means connected to said control circuit and operable to cause control circuit to activate said printer to record the information appearing on said alphanumeric display means.    61. the system of claim 60, and further comprising magnetic recorder means connected to said control circuit, and fifth activation means operable to cause said control circuit to activate said recorder to record the content of the alphanumeric display means and specific order data.      62. the system of claim 61, wherein said fifth activation means includes selectively operable cancel and order keys which are operable to provide the respective order data.    63. the system of claim 62, and further comprising a remotely located parts order computer which is connectible to a telephone system, and a modulator demodulator unit which may be coupled to the telephone system and which is connected to said magnetic recorder means for transmitting the content of the recorder means to said computer.    64. the system of claim 59, and further comprising a parts facility housing said system, said parts facility including a plurality of parts locations, each of said parts locations bearing a respective one of said locator number.    65. the system of claim 59, wherein said viewable parts information includes drawings of the parts and a tabulation of alphanumeric information concerning the respective parts.    66. apparatus for checking financial account information, comprising a display device, a microfiche bearing addressed areas each of which includes account information, a scanner operatively connected to said display device and including an optical sensor and a control circuit connected to operate said sensor in response to an input address, and key address input means connected to said control circuit and operable to input an account number as an address.      67. a bank signature card system comprising a microfiche bearing areas containing customer signatures and addresses corresponding to the customer account numbers and identifying the locations of the signatures, optical system including a microfiche transport and a viewing screen, a control circuit connected to drive said transport in response to input addresses, and an input keyboard connected to said control circuit and operable to key-in a customer account number to bring the respective signature on the viewing screen.    68. a financial management and control system comprising a plurality of first microfiche, each of said first microfiche including a first header and a first body, said first body including addressed first areas of optically viewable customer signatures and an index area bearing customer names and account numbers as first addresses, and said header bearing indicia designating the group of signatures contained on that microfiche, a plurality of second microfiche, each of said second microfiche including a second header and a second body, said second header bearing indicia identifying the respective second microfiche, and said body including addressed second areas of digital information each including customer account information,  said viewable parts information on said first body including for each respective signature a locator number which includes a first portion which is the identifying indicia of the corresponding second microfiche and a second portion which constitutes the address of the respective customer account information on that second microfiche, a viewer including a microfiche viewer transport means  for receiving a first microfiche and an optical system having a viewing screen, said viewer also including homing means operable to position said viewer transport means such that said index area is projected on said viewing screen to check customer names and account numbers, and first key-in addressing means operable in response to keying-in a first address to position said transport means such that a desired addressed first area and the desired signature is projected on said viewing screen,  a scanner including an optical scanning sensor means for receiving a second microfiche, and second key-in addressing means operable in response to keying-in the second portion of a locator number to cause said sensor means to scan the digital information identified by the keyed-in second portion of the locator number, an alphanumeric display connected to said scanner, and display activation means connected to said scanner for converting and applying the digital information to said display means.       69.    the system of claim 68, wherein said address portion of said locator number comprises the customer account number.    70. the system of claim 68, wherein said customer account information constituted by digital information on a second microfiche comprises the customer account number.    71. a financial management and control system comprising a plurality of first microfiche, each of said first microfiche including a first header and a first body, said first body including addressed first areas of optically viewable customer signatures and an index area bearing customer names and corresponding account   numbers as first addresses, and said header bearing indicia designating the group of signatures contained on that microfiche, a plurality of second microfiche, each of said second microfiche including a second header and a second body, said second header bearing indicia identifying the respective second microfiche, and said body including addressed second areas of digital information each including customer account information,  said viewable parts information on said first body including for each respective signature a locator number which includes a first portion which is the identifying indicia of the corresponding second microfiche and a second portion which constitutes the address of the respective customer account information on that second microfiche, a viewer including an optical system, a viewing screen, transport means for receiving and positioning a first microfiche with respect to said optical system, a scanner including an opto-electric scanning sensor means for receiving and scanning a second microfiche, an alphanumeric display means, and control means connected to said viewer, said scanner and said alphanumeric display means, said control means including address input means including   pre--programmed    home address means and selectively operable addressing keys,  a programmed control circuit connected to said viewer transport means, to said scanner and to said address input means, first activation means connected to said control circuit and operable to cause said control circuit to position said transport means so that said index area appears on said viewer screen to provide a check of customer name against  account number and obtain the address to be selectively keyed-in with said addressing keys, second activation means connected to said control circuit and operable to cause said control circuit to position said transport means so that the addressed first area appears on said viewer screen to provide the corresponding customer signature and the locator number whose second portion is to be selectively keyed-in with said addressing keys to access a second microfiche identified by the first portion of said locator number,  and third activation means connected to said control circuit and operable to cause said control circuit to operate said scanner to read the addressed second area and apply the read account information to said alphanumeric display means.     72. the system of claim 71, wherein said address portion of said locator number comprises the customer account number.    73. the system of claim 71, wherein said customer account information constituted by digital information on a second microfiche comprises the customer account number.    74. an information record comprising a microfilm body including a peripheral edge extending about said body, a marginal first area adjacent said peripheral edge and a second area adjacent said first area, said second area bearing rows of digital information, and said first area bearing digital addresses, each address adjacent and identifying a respective row of digital information.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
