<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0015717
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800917
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<main>B42F-3/00</main> B31F-5/00 B42F-3/00 B42B-5/00 B31F-5/02 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
apparatus for connecting together a plurality of webs of flexible material.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
paperlok limited<sep>paperlok limited<sep>williams, rodney paul32 regent roadgb-skipton, north yorkshiregb<sep>williams, rodney paul<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
paperlok limited<sep>paperlok limited<sep>williams, rodney paul32 regent roadgb-skipton, north yorkshiregb<sep>williams, rodney paul<sep>williams, rodney paul32 regent roadgb-skipton, north yorkshiregb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
an apparatus for connecting together a plurality of webs  of flexible material comprises a base (1) having an anvil (2) with  a sharp edged opening (3) therein.  the opening (3) comprises  a shank region (16) and an enlarged head region (17).  a punch­ ing head (6) movable towards and away from the base (1) car­ ries a punch (7) having a sharp edge and also comprising a  shank region (20) and elongate head region (19) which are  capable of fitting closely within the corresponding regions (16,  17) of the anvil opening.  either or both of the punch (7) and an­ vil opening (3) are devoid of a sharp edge adjacent that end of  the respective shank region (20; 16) which is remote from the  respective enlarged head region (19; 17).  when two or more  webs, (21, 22) are placed between the punch head (6) and the  anvil (2), and the punch (7) is moved into the anvil opening (3),  the sharp edges of the punch (7) and the opening (3) punch a  portion of material having a shank and an enlarged head from  each web (21, 22) and said portion remains joined at the base  of said shank to the associated web.  the apparatus may be  manufactured in a hand-operated version as substitute for a  stapling machine or in an industrial version possibly power op­ erated and useful for example in attaching packets to display  cards.  in other embodiments the invention may be used for at­ taching together the ends of strapping extending around loads  and for connecting together sets of sheets of paper formed  from continuous runs of such paper.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
apparatus for connecting together a plueity of webs of flexible material this invention relates to apparatus for connecting together a plurality of webs of flexible material. there are many areas where webs of flexible material need to be connected together, some of these being the securing-together of a number of sheets of paper, for example in office use, the securing of packets to display cards, the securing together of parts of folded blanks to form cartons and other containers and the fastening together of two ends of a length of strapping for packaging applications. there are nany well-known methods of securing together webs of flexible material. perhaps stapling machines are the most common example, but these have drawbacks in that the staples can be difficult to remove from the stapled sheets, the machines require constant reloading and staples are not completely interchangeable from one machine to another attempts have therefore been made to fasten two or more webs of flexible material together without the use of auxiliary fastening elements such as staples. u.k. patent specification no. 50bug663 (hahn) describes and illustrates an apparatus in which a v-shaped tongue is punched out of a corner of one web and is then automatically threaded into a slit automatically cut into the other web. another device working on this same principle is disclosed in u.s. patent specification no. 1,065,904 (bumps). devices of this type are relatively complicated in construction, they have many points of potential failure because they use a large number of working parts, and they are therefore relatively expensive and -bulky: as a result, although they have been known for many years, they have so far failed to develop any permanent place on the market. u.k. patent specification no. 792,852 (jewel) attempts to improve upon this sli-and-tongue type of fastener, and describes and illustrates an arrangement in which a basically circular tongue is punched through the folded corner region of the webs which are to be joined together. the apparatus described and illustrated in this specification no. 792,852 is undoubtedly far less complicated than apparatus of the 508,663 kind; but it has the drawback that the connected webs are relatively easily separated from one another because the basically circular locking tab which is punched out of the webs allows the two webs to be all too easily rotated relative to one another so that the punched tab slides out of register with its co-operating circular slot again, therefore, although the 792,852 device has been known for over twenty years, it has not - as far as i am aware - made any impact on the market. in general, despite its admitted drawbacks, the basic stapling machine continues to dominate the commercial market. according to the present invention apparatus for connecting together a plurality of webs of flexible material comprises a base; an anvil incorporated in said base and having an opening therein, at least part of the opening being defined by a first sharp edge and said defined part comprising a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:    1. apparatus for connecting together a plurality of webs of flexible material, said apparatus comprising a base; an anvil incorporated in said base and having an opening therein, at least part of the opening being defined by a first sharp edge and said defined part comprising a shank region and an enlarged head region; a punching head; means mounting said punching head for movement towards and away.from said base; and a punch incorporated in said punching head, at least part of said punch being delineated by a second sharp edge and said delineated part comprising a shank region and an elongated head region which are respectively capable of fitting closely within said shank region and enlarged head region of said defined part of the opening in said anvil;  at least one of said punch and said anvil opening being devoid of a sharp edge adjacent that   endof    the respective shank region which is remote from the respective enlarged head region, whereby when said webs are placed between said punch head and said anvil and said.   punch is moved into said anvil opening said first and second sharp edges punch a portion of material having a shank and an enlarged head from each web and said portion remains joined at the base of-said shank to the associated    web.    characterised in     2. apparatus as claimed in claim 1 /that said anvil opening and said punch are of substantially the same shape,  said punch projects a given distance from said punching head and terminates in a web-contacting surface, a first part of said web-contacting surface is delineated by said second sharp edge to comprise said shank region and said enlarged head region and a second part of said web-contacting surface forms an extension from said shank region and tapers away from said first part towards said punching head, said first and second part having a junction which is not sharp.    2 characterised in that  3. apparatus as claimed in claim 1 or   ciaim/said    anvil has an upper surface, said opening is formed through said surface and comprises a first part defined by said first sharp edge and a second part forming an extension of said shank region remote from said enlarged head region, said second part having a lower wall which tapers upwardly to join said   upper    surface.    preceding claims characterised in that  4. apparatus as claimed in -any   or the      / -    said punch is wholly delineated by said second sharp edge and said anvil opening comprises a first part defined by said first sharp edge and a second part forming an extension of said shank region remote from said enlarged head region.    preceding claims characterised in that  5. apparatus as claimed in any of the   /-    a plurality of similar openings are incorporated in said anvil and a plurality of similar punches are incorporated in said punching head, each one of said punches having a delineated part capable of fitting closely within a defined part of a respective one of said openings.      6. apparatus as claimed in any of the preceding claims, characterised in that the apparatus further comprises guide means operative, as part of said webs are advanced into said apparatus, to fold said advancing parts back over the remainder of said webs and to position said folded-back parts and part of the remainder of said webs over said anvil opening.      characterised in that the  7. apparatus according to any of claims 1 to 5/ apparatus including a base, a punching head slidable relative to the base, a handle mounted on the base for pivotal movement relative thereto and a folding mechanism mounted on the base for pivotal movement thereto, the handle, the punching head and folding mechanism being operably connected together so that movement of the handle causes both the folding mechanism and the punching head to effect their    pivotal movements characterised in that said  characterised in that said     8. apparatus according to any of claims 1 to 6/ mounting means comprises a pivotal connection between said base and said punching head located remote from    said anvil opening and punch.characterised in that said  characterised in that said       apparatus    as claimed in any of claims 1 to 5/ mounting means comprises guiding means for guiding said punching head along a reciprocal path towards    and away from said base. characterised in that the  characterised in that the     10.  apparatus according to any of claims 1 to 5/ apparatus includes means for feeding continuous sheets of paper, each continuous sheet having spaced-apart holes along the margin thereof, means for superimposing said continuous. sheets, means for punching portions of material through said superimposed continuous sheets at   spaced-apart- positions    therealong, means for displacing at least one of said continuous sheets relative to the other or others and means for separating the continuous sheets into sets of superimposed shorter sheets, so that each set has been subjected to at least one hole punching operation whereby the sheets of each set are joined together.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
