<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0009528
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800416
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B65H-43/00 B65H-39/11 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
jam detection system for a continuous paper sorting machine.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
ordibel incus <sep>ordibel, inc.<sep>ordibel, inc. 90 park avenue new york n.y. 10016 us<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
benjamin gary mus<sep>benjamin, gary m<sep>benjamin, gary m9200 hemlock avenue n.e.bainbridge island washington 98110us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
jam detection system for a continous paper sorting  machine in which the receiver (16) is comprised of stacks of  paper storage trays (36) with entrances for receiving paper  sheets from a feeder (14).  the receiver (16) moves relative to  the feeder mechanism (14), such that the bin entrances move  past sheet feeder deflectors and guides (34).  the feeder (14)  has an infeed conveyor (24) from a press or duplicator (12)  which moves the sheets for directing the copies either into a  proof tray (20) or on into the feeder (14).  the sheets are then  fed to an intermediate conveyor (26 or 28) and from there to a  reversible generally vertically disposed feeder conveyor (32).   sensors (40, 42 and 44) are included in the sorting machine at  predetermined locations as part of the control system and for  jam detection.  the jam detection system is designed to pro­ vide a visual read-out code for indicating the nature of and  likely location of a paper jam.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
"jam detection system for a continuous paper sorting machine" thie invention relates to shect distributing or sorting davices and more particularly to an apparatus which sorts continuously large numbers of multi-page documents and in which a novel and unique jam det ion system is incorporated in the machine controls reference is made to the following copendilng united states patent applications which are incorporated herein and which are directed to other features of the instant machine in which the jam detection system is incorporated. they are: 1. "continuous paper sorting machine" serial no.: 897,272, filed. april 17, 1978; 2. "bir receiver mechario n for a contlrucus paper sorting machine sorial no. : 897,273, filed april 17, 1978; 3. "feeding mechanism for a continuous sorting machine" serial no.: 897,274, filed april 17, 1978; and 4. "paper sheet deflecting system for sorter mechanism" serial no.: 897,275, filed april 17, 1978 prior art paper distributors, sorters and/or collåators have encountered many problems. one is that the large increase in the cost of labor and materials has ad it more imperative that the available press or duplicator capacity be utilized to its fullest. in order for the maxizu: volume capability of a printing, duplicating, or copy making machine to be utilizes, it is necessary that the sorter have the capacity to receive tbe printer or copy making machine output without due loss of press or copy making machine time. areas of lost time vïuld be those accounted for by faulty or irregular transport of sheet copies and by failure of the controls to detect nonprogrammed occurrences such as sheets counted at entry to feeder but t courted in tower. others would be paper sheets hanying up at deflector locations, stalling at the entrances to trays and overlapping to name a few of the irregularities. since there are different types of irregularities which can occur, it is important that the operator be able to locate the problem or irregularity area for quick clearing of the machine. those skilled in the art will appreciate the savings in labor, time and money if the output of a printing or copying center is not impaired 4y long shutdowns to hunt for jams. among the prior art references which may be con sidered with respect to the features of this invention are the following: united states patent nos. 3,988,018; 3,527,406; 3,905,594. the devices covered by the above listed patents are considered to be nonanticipatory of the teachings of this invention. seminary jam dete tion 5'1 stem for a continuous paper sorting machine, in which t receiver is comprised of at least two columns of inclined side-by-side stacks of paper storage trays with entrances for receiving paper sheets from a feeder. the receiver is mounted for lateral moyement relative to the feeder mechanism, such that the tray etrances move past the feecµss4uizljz a generally vertically plane. the feeder has an in- feed conveyor from a press or duplicator which moves the sheets of paper to a deflector which directs the copies
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
what is claimed is:    1. in a continuous paper sorting machine having a feeder portion with an   in feed    conveyor leading from a press/duplicator   mecnanism    and a proof tray thereabove, and including upwardly and downwardly inclined intermediate conveyors at the inner end of said   infeed      conveyor    and a generally   vertical,reversibie    tower   convenor    with paper   deflector    and guide means, said paper sorting   machine    also including a movable din receiver section with vertical stacks of paper trays for receiving sheets of paper from said tower   conveyor    feeder portion: the jam detection improvements coprising'.    1) first proof sensor means on said   indeed    conveyor,  2) second up/down sensor means near the inner end of said infeed conveyor,  3) third tower sensor means on said tower conveyor,  4) control means including a control panel having visual read-out means thereon for   indicating    by predetermined code the general nature and probable location of a paper jam in said sorting   machine      wher.      such a jam occurs  2. the jam detection improvements according to claim   l    and in which said control means, is able to sense, and display on said visual readout means a  predetermined   number    of paper jam conditions in said sorting machine.    3. the jam   detection    improvements according to claim 2 and   1'.'.      which    a jam detect and display code condition   sows    that a paper sheet was at said proof sensor ror   longer    than a   predctermined    period.    4. the jam detection improvements according to claim 2 and in which a jam detect and display code condition shows that a paper sheet was at said down/ up   sensor    for longer than a predetermined period.    5.   tl-le    jam detection improvements according to claim 2 and in which a jam detect and display code condition   stows    that a paper sheet was at said tower sensor for longer than a predetermined period.    6. the j am detection improvements according to claim 2 and   3:'    which a   jam    detect and display code condition shows that paper sheets counts at said tower and said down/up sensors did not balance within predetermined time after last sheet cleared   down/up    sensor.      7.    the jam detection improvements according to claim 2 and in which a jam detect and display code condition shows that paper sheet counts at said tower and said down/up sensors differed by more than a predetermined   nuitber.         8. the lam detection improvements according to   claims    2 and in which a jam detect and display code condition   sho.'s    that the machine was stopped by the operator depressing a   stop/off    switch.    9. the   jam    detection improvements according to claim 2 and in   which    a jam detect and display code condition shows that a paper sheet   was    detected at said down/up sensor which was not counted at said proof sensor.       10    the jam detection improvements according to claim 2 and in which a jam detect and display code condition shows that a paper sheet was detected at said tower sensor which was not counted at said proof sensor.    11. the jam detection improvements according to claim 2 and in which a jam detect and display code condition shows that a zero or limit switch was tripped by said movable receiver at a time when it should not have been.    12. the jam detection improvements according to claim 2 and in which while a jam condition is beiny displayed, said control means also displays the   number    of sets remaining to be completed at the time the jam   condition    occurred.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
