<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0011932
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800611
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
A61N-1/372 A61N-1/362 A61N-1/37 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
cardiac pacemaker
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
medtronic inc us <sep>medtronic, inc.<sep>medtronic, inc.3055 old highway eightminneapolis minnesota 55440us<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
stein marc tus<sep>stein, marc t.<sep>stein, marc t.1865 east broadway road apt. 153tempe, arizona 85282us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a demand pacemaker includes detecting means for detecting heart activity wherein the sensitivity of the detecting means may be selectively altered by a control input.  the detecting means comprises a differential amplifier 129, 130 one input of which is the voltage on capacitor 128 supplied via biassing resistor 127.  line g supplies a signal of sensed electrical activity and line f supplies a signal representative of the level of sensed extraneous electrical noise.  a sensitivity signal at 156, e. g.  from digital circuitry, controls the bias via current sinks 152-155.  in the absence of a signal 156, sinks 153, 154 and 155 conduct; with a positive voltage at 156 sink 153 turns off to reduce the current through resistor 127 and increase the sensitivity.  conversely, a low voltage at 156 turns on transistor 152 to decrease the sensitivity.  an output signal via transistors 147 and 162 similarly tend to turn off transistor 155 to increase the sensitivity, thus providing positive feedback to enhance output pulse production.  circuit block 41b supplies reference currents and voltages. 
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
cardiac pacealker body implantable cardiac stimulators or pacemae=l are known to the prior art. an early pacemaker is disclosed by greatbatch in u.s. patent no. 3,057,356, entitled kyjec ical cardiac pacemaker", which issued in 1962. this device included a relaxation oscillator that generated electrical pulses at a fixed rate. the pulses were applied to the heart to cause the heart to contract each time a pulse occurred. pacing technology has lagged behind conventional state of the art electronic technology in its utilization of digital electronic circuits. one reason for this has been the high energy required to operate digital electronic circuits. energy requirements are a major concern in pacemaker design. however, with the continuing advances of electronic technology, digital electronic circuits are increasingly feasible within the context of commercial pacemaker units. the accuracy and reliabl lity of digital electron ic circuits are factors that encourage their use within the pacemaker context. the facility with which they can be programmed and reprogra.mmed to alter one or more operating cas furtber enhances thei utility. for example, pacemakes have been disclosed which respond is magnetic anojor radio frequency signals to alter an operating parameter. pulse rate and pulse width may be programmed in this manner. in addition, pacemakers have been constructed which are inhibited in the presence of certain signals, al though no known prior art paceaker is capable of having more than two parameters, features or tests programmed on command. the implementation of digital electronic circuitry within the pacemaker context provides the opportunity to program or reprogram one or several operating parameters, on command, via externally generatedsignals. for example, pulse rate, pulse width and pulse amplitude can be externally established at one of any number of combinations. in addition, the refractory period may be 4established and altered. further, digital circuitry can be programmed on a temporary or permanent basis, as desired. of course, other operating parameters or characteristics can also be externally programmable. clearly then, a pacemaker utilizing digital electronic circuitry would have a more universal application by allowing the pacemaker to be programmed to fit the needs of a particular application as opposed to being manufactured for limited applications. in addition, such a unit can be instructed to give an external indication of its program status, particularly in instances where that status is not directly observable. however, even with the implementation of digital circuitry, certain analog circuitry is necessary to generate and/or transmit various control signals and to respond to the digital circuitry to effect its programming. the present invention relates to analog circuitry intended for cooperation with digital circuitry to assist the pelfermance of une pacemaking function analog circuit unction necessary within the context cf a digital pacemaker are the demodulation of a programming signal, the detection of heart activity during operation in d demand mode and provision of clock pulses. additionallyi analog circuitry may be employed to give an indication of battery status and to impose an upper rate limit on the stimulation initiating signals generated by the digital
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
craims   1. a cardiac pacemaker of the kind having means for sensing heart   activity    and means responsive to the sensing means for   affcc'j,n"-      t.e    operation   a    said pacemaker, comprising means for establishing        reference level signal representative of the level of sensed extraneous repetitive noise, means for   providing    a second signal differing from said reference level signal by an amount representative of sensed heart activity, detecting means responsive to said signals to produce an output signal indicative of   sense    heart activity, and means for selectively altering the sensitivity of said detecting means.   2. a pacemaker as claimed in claim 1 wherein said   alteri    means comprises means for establishing one of a predetermined plurality of   sensitivities     3. a pacemaker as claimed in   claim    1 or 2 wherein said detecting means comprises means   differential    responsive to said reference level an second   signaja    4. a pacemaker as claimed in claim 3 wherein said detecting means comprises a differential amplifier, said altering means comprising means biassing said differential amplifier and capable of selectively altering the bias.   5. a pacemaker as claimed in claim 4 wherein said biassing means comprises resistance means and means for establishing a voltage drop across said resistance means.   6. a pacemaker as claimed in claim 5 wherein said voltage drop establishing means comprise current sink means.   7. a pacemaker as claimed in claim 6 wherein said current sink means comprises a plurality of selectively conducting current sinks.   8. a pacemaker as claimed in any preceding claim wherein said altering means is responsive to a sensitivity input  having either no signal or a high cf sr   -c,*      v,t    signal and is arranged to provide one c three   sens'tiyities    in accordance with the state of the input, the sensitivity in the no-signal state being intermediate the other two sensitivities.    9, a pacemaker as claimed in claims   7    and 8 including at least two current sinks arranged to be conductive when said input is in the no-signal state, at least one of said current sinks being arranged to be turned off when the input is in one of the voltage signal states, and including at least one further current sink arranged to be turned on in the other voltage signal state, 10. a pacemaker as claimed in an preceding claim wherein said detecting means comprises means providing positive feedback to enhance the production of an output signal indicative of sensed heart activity.   11. a pacemaker as claimed in claims 9 and 10 wherein said biassing means is arranged to increase the sensitivity of the differential amplifier during the   operation    of an output signal indicative of sensed heart activity,  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
