<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0017626
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19801015
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
E04H-6/18 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
building with lift system for the parking of motor vehicles.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
mascarin vittorio<sep>mascarin, vittorio<sep>mascarin, vittoriovia san quirino 58i-33170 pordenoneit<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
mascarin vittorio<sep>mascarin, vittorio<sep>mascarin, vittoriovia san quirino 58i-33170 pordenoneit<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
we are dealing here with a building (5) having a lift  system (31) for the parking of motor vehicles, whereby the  building (5) consists substantially of a plurality of floors, each  of which has parking spaces (6-9) for motor vehicles, and of  at least one roadway for the delivery of said motor vehicles,  and comprises in reciprocal cooperation and coordination:   - at least one plurality of floors extending sideways with a  plurality of parking spaces (6-7-8-9),   - at least one lift group (31) able to shift sideways along at  least part of said plurality of floors and said plurality of  parking spaces (6-7 and 8-9),   - at least one surface (27) for the temporary support of  motor vehicles and able to run vertically in respect of  said lift group (31),   - at least one group of tracks (24-21) for the running of  said lift group (31), the tracks being positioned parallel  to the front of said plurality of floors,   - whereby said lift group (31) and said temporary sup­ porting surface (27) can be shifted as desired.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
description of the industrial invention entitled: ."building with lift system for the parking of motor vehicles in the name of vittorio mascarin, an italian national resid- ing at 58 via s. quirino, pordenone. submitted on................. on under no this invention concerns a building with a lift system for the parking of motor vehicles; to be more exact, the invent ion refers to a building made of any desired material and equipped with a lift system suitable for enabling motor veh ideas to be parked in an order which has been established or can be pre-established. the growing number of motor vehicles -in use brings with it considerable difficulties in parking said vehicles, especially in town centres. -as is know, the traditional parking spaces laid out along the roads are no longer enough to hold the ever greater num ber of motor vehicles and it is therefore necessary to use public and private garages. in particular, so as to be able -to accommodate and guard a large number of motor vehicles, .recourse is being made nowadays to the use of appropriate building employed for parking purposes; said buildings canbe realized as car parks equally wel±. above or below ground - level. in either case said buildings are normality multistorey,each floor having considerable areas wherein motor vehicles can be parked side by side and sometimes in more than one row. some appropriate roadways are arranged to give access to the various floors of such buildings and may accommodate one-way .or two-way traffic; said motor vehicles can move along these roadways so as to enter and/or leave the garages. .however, it is often not possible to utilize the space on the various floors in a rational manner inasmuch as the manoeu- .vres for parking the motor vehicles themselves are made very .hard owing to the presence of the other motor vehicles already parked. another difficulty lies in the restricted size of the park-. -ing areas themselves, and this leads to unsatisfactory use -of such areas said use being made even harder by the need; to arrange for roadways of a considerable size. next, in cer -tain cases it is not possible to take away the motor vehicles sparked in a given zone of the garage unless the other vehi- -cles parked alongside or in front of them and hindering thetr passage have been taken away or shifted beforehand. a system sf garages has also been proposed which is based on a, plural ity of cells connected to one or more chains closed ringwise. said cells are able to hold one or more cars and, when they are full, -are shifted by one or more steps according to the programme adopted. but this system too is restricted -by the greatest number of cars which said closed chain can hold. -the present invention, therefore, proposes as its objective -to overcome the foregoing shortcomings and to make available a building suitable for parking purposes, in which all the existing areas can be used in a rational
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims   .1. building with lift system for the parking of motor   vehi- -    cles, consisting substantially of a plurality of floors each   .of    which comprises parking spaces for motor   vehicles    and of at least one roadway for the delivery of said motor vehicles, being characterized by comprising in reciprocal cooperation -and coordination: :   -    at least one plurality of floors (115) extending stdeways   -with    a plurality of parking spaces (6-7-8-9),   -    at least one lift group   (31)    able to shift sideways along .at least part of said plurality of floors (115) and of saidplurality of parking spaces (6-7 and   8-9),-    - at least one group of tracks (24-21) for the movement of  .said lift group (31), said tracks running parallel to the front of said plurality of floors   (115),      -    whereby said lift group (31) and said temporary supporting   surface      (27)    can be shifted as wished.   2. building with lift system, as in claim i, characterized - by the fact that the lift group   (31)    can shift sideways and.   comprises a rigid structure (14) with which the temporary supporting surface (27) cooperates, which latter can bear at least one motor vehicle at a time and is able to shift as swished along said rigid structure (14).   -3. building with lift system, as in claims i and 2, charact   erized    by the fact that the lift group   (31)    cooperates with    -at    least the upper running tracks (29).      -4.    building with lift system, as in claim i and in one or -the other of the claims thereafter, characterized by the fact that it comprises at least two pluralities of floors (it5) .and that said pluralities of floors   (115)    face each other.      5.    - building with lift system, as in claim i and in one or    .      another of the claims thereafter, characterized by the fact .that the lift group (31) cooperates with at least part of the  plurality of parking spaces (6-7-8-9) of one plurality of floors (115) and advantageously with at least part of   tuo    pluralities of parking spaces (6-7-8-9) which face each other.    6. building with lift system, as in claim i and in one or another of the claims thereafter, characterized by having a linear form.   7. building with lift system, as in claim i and in one or another of the claims thereafter up to and including claim 5, characterized by having a form which is at least partly cur   used.         8.    building with lift system, as in claim i and in one or another of the claims thereafter, characterized by the fact .that the lift group   (3i)    and the temporary supporting surface (27) can shift freely to reach any parking space posit   ioned    within their working area.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
