<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0007220
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800123
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B06B-1/10 B65G-27/32 B65G-27/10 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
vibrating systems.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
popper eng ltdil<sep>popper engineering ltd.<sep>popper engineering ltd.6, ranas streetkyriat motzkin il<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
popper jakhin boas il <sep>popper, jakhin boas<sep>popper, jakhin boas6 ranas streetkyriat motzkinil<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a vibrating system comprising a driven mass m arranged  for vibratory motion along a travel axis; at least one spring of  spring constant k coupling the driven mass to a location and  extending along a spring axis; means for applying a driving  force f to said driven mass along a driving axis; the angular  relationships between the at least one spring axis, the second  and travel axes and the spring constants ki being determined  in accordance with a specified expression.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
vibrating systems the present invention relates to vibrating systems and more particularly to spring-mounted vibrating systems. vibrating systems such as vibrating tables or screens are conventionally constructed to vibrate along a predetermined axis. normally, a change in the angle of vibration requires a major realignment of the vibrating system drive which may or may not be possible in a given structural environment. in conventional vibrating systems, the drive normally vibrates along the same axis as does the vibrated element. this conventional on-axis type drive imposes severe design limitations. the present invention seeks to overcome the aforesaid limitations in prior art conventional vibrating systems and provides a spring-mounted vibrating system in which the vibration of the drive need not be on-axis with the intended axis of system vibration. furthermore in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention the angular separation between the drive axis and the driven axis may be determined within given limits by suitable selection of the spring constants and angular orientation of springs in the system. there is thus provided in accordance with an embodiment of the invention a vibrating system comprising: a driven mass arranged for vibratory motion along a travel axis; at least one spring of spring constant k coupling said driven mass to a location and extending along a spring axis; means for applying a driving force f to said driven mass along a driving axis; the angular relationships between said at least one spring axis, said second and travel axes and the spring constants ki being determined in accordance with the following expression: : emi2.1 where a is the nagle between said travel axis and said driving axis; yi is the angle between said driving axis and a spring axis of index i measured in a uniform direction; u is the angular frequency of the reciprocating force f; k. is the spring constant of a first spring of index i; ti is the equal to tan the summation is executed over all of the springs in the system that hold the mass m. further in accordance with an embodiment of the invention the amplitude of vibration is given by the following expression: emi3.1 additionally in accordance with an embodiment of the invention there is provided a reversing conveyor comprising the vibrating system described hereinabove wherein said driven mass includes a conveyor surface and also comprising means for varying the orientation of at least one spring axis from a first orientation producing conveying along said surface in a first direction by vibration of said conveyor surface along a first travel axis to a second orientation producing conveying along said surface in a second direction by vibration of said conveyor surface along a second travel axis additionally in accordance with an embodiment of the invention systems producing elliptic motion are provided by <rti id=3.2> combining two vibrating systems of the type described hereinabove such that their respective travel axes are angled with respect to each other conveyors may be constructed using vibrating systems which produce
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
   what    we claim is: 1. a vibrating system comprising:  a driven mass m arranged for vibratory motion along a travel axis;  at least one spring of spring constant k coupling said driven mass to a location and extending along a spring axis;  means for applying a driving force f to said driven mass along   b    driving axis;  the angular relationships between said at least one spring axis, said second and travel axes and the spring constants   ki    being determined in accordance with the following expression: : emi19.1       where   a    is the angle between said travel axis and  said driving axis;    is is the angle between said driving axis and     a spring axis of index i measured in a uni  form driection;    o    is the frequency of the reciprocating force f;  ki is the spring constant of a first spring of  index i;  ti is equal to tan  2. apparatus according to claim 1 and wherein the amplitude of vibration is given by the following expression: emi20.1       3. a reversing conveyor comprising the vibrating system of either of claims 1 and 2 and wherein said driven mass includes a conveyor surface and also comprising means for varying the orientation of at least one spring axis from a first orientation producing conveying along said surface in a first direction by vibration of said conveyor surface along a first travel axis to a second orientation producing conveying along said surface in a second direction by vibration of said conveyor surface along a second travel axis.   4. a vibrating system producing elliptic motion comprising apparatus according to any of the preceding claims and also comprising means for applying a second driving force to said driven mass along a second driving axis angled with respect to said driving axis.   5. apparatus according to any of the preceding claims and wherein said at least one spring comprises a single of spring constant k and emi20.2        6. apparatus according to any of the preceding claims and wherein a = 900.   7. apparatus according to any of claims 1-4 and 6 and wherein said at least one spring comprises a plurality of springs.   8. apparatus according to claim 7 and wherein all are equal.   9. apparatus according to any of the preceding claims and wherein said at least one spring comprises a spring for which t   =    0.   10. a vibrating system for producing perpendicular rotational motion and comprising at least two of the systems of claim 1 disposed on a circle such that their travel axes are perpendicular to each other in the plane of the circle.   11. a vibrating system according to any of the preceding claims wherein said driven mass includes a conveyor tray.   12. apparatus according to any of the preceding claims 1-10 and wherein said driven mass comprises at least one bridge breaker blades arranged for vibratory motion perpendicular to said driving axis.   13. apparatus according to any of the preceding claims wherein an increase in said driven mass results in an increase in amplitude a   and    a decrease in angle a 14. apparatus according to any of the preceding claims and also comprising means for shifting the orientation of said at least one spring, thereby to shift said spring axis and to shift said travel axis.     15. apparatus according to claim 14 and wherein said shifting means comprises linear displacement means onto which is pivotably coupled said at least one spring,   16.    a reversible vibrating conveyor according to claim 14 of 15.    17. a reversible vibrating conveyor operative in elliptical motion according to claim 14 or 15 and 4; 18. apparatus according to any of the preceding claims wherein said at least one spring comprises at least one hanging spring.   19. apparatus according to any of claims 1-17 wherein said at least one spring comprises at least one support spring.   20. a conveyor system producing elliptical motion comprising:  a conveyor tray;  means for producing elliptic motion;  kappa spring means arranged along a first axis for cpupling said means for producing elliptic motion to said conveyor tray such that the major axis of said elliptic motion is along said first axis and the minor axis of said elliptic motion is along an axis perpendicular to said first axis.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
