<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0007209
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800123
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
H04L-27/227 H04L-27/22 H03L-7/099 <main>H03L-7/00</main> H03L-7/06 H04L-7/02 H03L-7/08 H04L-7/033 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
demodulator arrangement for diphase digitally modulated signals.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
post office gb<sep>the post office<sep>the post office23 howland streetlondon w1p 6hqgb<sep>the post office  <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
wright simon charles marcus<sep>wright, simon charles marcus<sep>wright, simon charles marcusavenue des grives 3b-1420 braine-l'alleudbe<sep>wright, simon charles marcus<sep>wright, simon charles marcusavenue des grives 3b-1420 braine-l'alleudbe<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a circuit for producing an output waveform synchronised  with the timing of a given waveform, the circuit comprising:   a multiplicity of digital counting stages (16, 17) arranged as  a frequency divider to produce a frequency-divided output  from an input frequency, the division ratio of the frequency  divider being settable to either, or any one, of at least two  values, one of said digital counting stages being a divide-by-­ two circuit arranged to provide said output waveform.    timing comparison means (5) arranged to make repeated  comparisons of the timing of an output of the frequency  divider with the timing of a reference waveform, and to pro­ duce on each comparison a first signal if the output is leading  the reference and a second signal if the output is lagging the  reference, said timing comparison means comprising a first  d-type bistable circuit (5) and a transition detector circuit (3,  4), the output of the transition detector circuit being con­ nected to the clock input of the bistable circuit, and the d  input of the bistable circuit being connected to receive the  same input as the said divided-by-two circuit forming part of  the frequency divider,   integrator means (10, 11) connected to the output of the  timing comparison means to integrate the first signal in one  direction and the second signal in the opposite direction, and   division ratio setting means (12) to set the division ratio at a  first, higher, value if the integrated value exceeds a threshold  in the one direction, and at a second lower value if the inte­ grated value exceeds the threshold in the opposite direction.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
circuits for producing an output waveform synchronized with the timing of a given waveform this invention relates to circuits for producing an output waveform synchronised with the timing of a given waveform. there are many circumstances in which it is required to generate an electrical waveform synchronised with the timing of another wavefonm and it is known to use a digital pbase-locked loop for this purpose. one known way of performing a phase correction in a digital phase-locked loop is to gate a pulse into or out of a frequency divider within the loop. another known technique is to use a dividing stage of adjustable dividend comprising a series of cascade-connected divide-by-two units, the cascade connection being adjustably pre-set. in some applications, such as diphase transmission and reception, very high data rates (for example 48 kilobits per second are employed. one problem of phase synchronisation at high date rates is that of phase jitter on the synchronised waveform. if phase correction is applied for all phase discrepancies (even very small ones) excessive amounts of phase jitter are likely to be generated. on the other hand, responsiveness may be lost if a correction signal is generated only for phase discrepancies of greater than a fairly large¯predetermined value. examples of prior art digital phase-locked loops may be found in u.k, patent specifications 1,355,028 and 1,389,127, the article wlow-power digital phase locked loop utilizes cmos logic by david a, johnson in electrical design news, vol. 17, no. 6 march 15, 1972, the article "optimum estimation of bit synchronization" by alan l. mcbride and andrew p. sage in ieee transactions on aerospace and electronic systems vol aes-5 no. 3, may 1969, the article *a wide band all digital phase-locked loop* by hisas yamamoto in abstracts of iece transactions, vol. 58, no. 3, march 1975, in the article "phase noise and transient times for a binary quantized digital phase-locked loop in white gaussian noise" by james r. cessna and donald m. levy in iee transactions on communications vol. com-20, no. - 2 april 1972, in the article "a high precision phase lock loop" by j.p. gonyet in conference on frequency generation and control for radio systems may 22-24, 1967, and in u.s. patent specifications 3,562,661; 3,916,324 and 3,209,265. the article by david a. johnson describes a system in which a phase comparator provides information to an up-down counter as to whether the phase of incoming data is increasing, decreasing or constant as compared to a local data clock. a high-speed local clock waveform and a variable divider are used to generate the local data clock. timing information from an incoming signal is obtained by generating a timing-reference pulse for each signal-level transmission. the timing-reference pulses should occur at the falling edge of a clock pulse and if a timing-reference pulse is coincident with the more positive half of the data clock, a count-up command is generated, and if a timingreference pulse is coincident with the more negative half, a count-down command is generated. these commands
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
what is claimed is:    1. a circuit for producing an output waveform synchronised with the timing of a given waveform, the circuit comprising: (16,17)  a multiplicity of digital counting   rtagestarranged    as a frequency divider to produce a frequency-divided output from an input frequency, the division ratio of the frequency divider being settable to either1 or any one, of at least two values, one of said digital counting stages being a divide-by-two circuit arranged to provide said output waveform,    ()     timing   comparison    meansxarranged to make repeated comparisons of the timing of an output of the frequency divider with the timing of a reference waveform, and to produce on each comparison a first signal if the output is leading the reference and a second signal if the output is lagging the reference,  said timing comparison means comprising a first d-type bistable   circuitaand    a transition detector   circuit/,    the output of the transition detector circuit being connected to the clock input of the bistable circuit, and the d input of the bistable circuit being connected to receive the same input as the said divide-bytwo circuit forming part of the frequency divider,    (10,11)  integrator meanskconnected to the output of the timing    comparison means to integrate the first signal in one direction and the second signal in the opposite direction, and    co)     division ratio setting   meanstto    set the division ratio at a first, higher, value if the integrated value exceeds a threshold in the one direction,  and at a second lower value if the integrated value exceeds the threshold in the opposite direction.      2. a circuit as claimed in claim 1, further    c2) including a diphase demodulation circuitaconnected to    receive the given waveform as an input to be demodulated    and the said output waveform as a demodulating signal,  ( 25j)      meanskconnected    to the output of the diphase demodulation circuit to determine whither at the times of transitions in the output signal of the diphase demodulation circuit the said output waveform   bas    a predetermined logic level, and   meanskto    invert the phase of the said output waveform if at the said times the said output waveform has a complementary logic level.    3. a circuit as claimed in claim 2, wherein said means to determine whether the output waveform has a predetermined logic level comprises a further transition   detector(al,22)    connected to the output of the diphase demodulation circuit, first logic gate   meanstconnected    to receive the said output waveform and the output of the further transition detector and responsive to the said predetermined logic level, second logic gate   meansz connected    to receive the said output waveform and the output of the further transition detector and responsive to said complementary logic level, and first   (7 up/down counter meanst aving its up and down inputs    connected respectively to the outputs of the said first and second logic gate means.    4. a circuit as claimed in claim 3. wherein said    integrator means comprises second up/down digital counter  (10,11)      means,    the first signal is a count-in-one-direction pulse, the second signal is a   count-in-the-opposite-direction    pulse, and the means to   invert    the phase of the said output waveform comprises a connection from an output of the first up/down digital counter   meanskto    a load control input of the second   up/down    digital counter means and comprises a source of the said predetermined logic level connected to a load input of the second up/down digital counter means.      5. a circuit as claimed in claim 4, wherein the division ratio of the frequency divider is settable to any one of at least three values and the division ratio setting means is arranged to set the division ratio at a third value, lower than the second value, if the integrated value exceeds a second threshold in the opposite direction, the second threshold being on the opposite direction side of the first threshold, and at the second value if the integrated values lies between the two thresholds.    6. a circuit as claimed in claim 5, wherein said second   up/down    digital counter means comprises   firstiand      secondup/down digital    counters, the output of the timing   (5) comparison meanstbeing connected to the input of the first  (iso) counter the output of the first counter being connected  (11) (13) to the input of the second counter#, and meanstbeing provided    to enter a first predetermined count in the first counter when the first threshold is exceeded in the one direction and to enter a second predetermined count in the first counter when the second threshold is exceeded in the opposite direction, the first count being on the opposite direction side of the second count.   - 7. a circuit as claimed in claim 6, wherein said first    digital counterthas a max/min output connected to the d input ('5) of a second d-type bistable circuits, a source of clock pulses (14)    is connected to a clock input of the first digital counter    and the clock input of the second d-type bistable circuit,  c%4? the output of the first transition detectorkis connected to the    the clock input of a third d-tvpe bistable   circuit,   an output of the third d-type bistable circuit is connected to   the d    input of   a fourth d-tvpe    bistable   circui , an output    of the fourth d-type bistable circuit is connected to a clear input of the third d-type bistable circuit,   an output of  the second d-type bistable circuit is connected to the clock input of the fourth d-type bistable circuit, and the fourth d-type bistable circuit is arranged to supply pulses to be counted to the first digital counter.    8. a circuit as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the multiplicity of digital counting stages is an    (i') integrated circuit (ic) digital counterthaving a load    input and the division ratio setting means is arranged to load the ic digital counter with either, or any one, of at least two predetermined counts at the beginning of each counting cycle.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
