<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0010302
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800430
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<main>B65D-3/02</main> B65D-3/00 B65D-3/02 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
a method of producing a frustoconical container for food products.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
maryland cup corpus   <sep>maryland cup corporation<sep>maryland cup corporation10100 reisterstown roadowings mills maryland 21117us<sep>maryland cup corporation<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
boyle patrick t<sep>herbst david h<sep>boyle, patrick t.<sep>herbst, david h.<sep>boyle, patrick t.8219 analee avenuebaltimore maryland 21237us<sep>herbst, david h.2107 brookmead courtreisterstown maryland 21136us<sep>boyle, patrick t.  <sep>herbst, david h.<sep>boyle, patrick t.8219 analee avenuebaltimore maryland 21237us<sep>herbst, david h.2107 brookmead courtreisterstown maryland 21136us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a two-piece frustoconical container (10) is provided with  a scalloped sidewall (12) having a lowermost depressed edge  portion (12f) opposite to an uppermost edge portion in a  scoop configuration engageable with foods in bulk as a scoop.   when filled with food product the container (10) will stand  alone.  a lapped side seam (18a) extends from the base to the  uppermost edge portion to lend stiffness to the scoop config­ uration.  a parallel vertical stripe decor (24b, 24c) is provided  over the major portion of the interior surface of the container  (10) and is printed thereon by a method which obviates the  need to provide registry of the printing on the front and back  surfaces of the strip stock from which each side blank (12) is  cut.  the rear surface of the strip stock is printed with a parallel  chevron design, with or without occlusion of the apices of the  chevrons, as desired, the apices and the printed sidewall  blanks (12) on the front surface being centered on the strip  stock and the legs of the chevrons (24b, 24c) being at the  same included angle and orientation as the side seam-­ forming ends of the sidewall blank (12).  when the sidewall  blanks (12) are blanked (cut) from the strip stock and the ends  lapped to form a side seam (18a), the stripes at the seam (18a)  and around the major portion of the interior of the thus  formed frustoconical sidewall (12) will appear parallel and be  vertically disposed between the bottom and open end of the  container (10).  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
combined scoop and serving container and method of providing a frustoconical container sidewall description of the invention this invention relates to a combined scoop and serving container and to a method of providing a frustoconical container sidewall and more particularly, to a two-piece basically frustoconical scoop and serving cup combination for the sale of measured portions of french fried potatoes and the like. in the prior art, there are at present collapsible french fry scoops and serving containers which must be assembled from a collapsed position into an upstanding or modified condition prior to ingesting substantially measured quantities of french fried potatoes therein for the purpose of dispensing these measured quantities of potatoes to retail customers and the like. aiso, such prior art containers are not basically -capable of standing upright but require sloping supports or other ancillary equipment at the point of purchase in order to properly present them to retail customers in fast-food establishments and the like. the scooped out center portion of the sidewall blank forms the lowermost edge portion of the mouth of the scoop or skuttle configuration. the position of this lowermost edge portion defines the front of the container, thereby rendering the-interior surface of the high back portion of the scoop, including the lapped side seam, the apparent obverse surface of the interior of the container. for aesthetic reasons, when the supply of french fries or other food products in a container are substantially depleted by customer consumption, a vertical parallel line pattern printed or otherwise applied to the interior obverse surface of the container, with the pattern lines parallel to the side seam, is desirable. this pattern is oriented in a substantially similar manner to the elongated french fries and the lines are suggestively similar in configuration to the french fries. thus, the container appears less empty to the consumer of the the contents thereof at any given stage of consumption. however, in forming such a pattern on the obverse interior surface of a frustoconical container of the present invention which its conventionally formed from the arcuate cup blanks of the present invention, blanked from continuously fed strip stock, the geometry of these blanks requires that the printing on the two surfaces of the strip stock be in full registry. this presents undesirable cost and quality control factors. t.e in order to eliminate the abcve-mentioned disadvantzges of the prior art basically,the combined scoop and serving container of the invention is constructed in the manner of a two-piece frustoconical paper cup or the like having a sidewall blank with a lapped side seam, a bottom disc having a downturned flange thereon and a bottom curl formed on the sidewall portion of the cup which engages the thetion to form a bottom curl and seam configuration at the lo-closed end of the container upon which the con < will be sea euwporting and stand upright.¯ the sidewall blank is cut with a substantially symmetrical curvature which is caused to dip towards the lowermost extremity thereof
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 the claims    1. combined scoop and serving container for food products characterized by  a frustoconical drinking cup structure having a closed base (14) and an upstanding sidewall (12);  said sidewall (12) having a scalloped configuration extending, symmetrically, from a lowermost curved portion (12f) to a substantially opposed uppermost curved portion (12e) to define an open scoop; and  said uppermost curved portion (12e) comprising the initial food engaging position of said scoop.    2. container according to claim 1, characterized in that said lowermost curved portion (12f) is directed downwardly to provide a gripping means on the sidewall (12).    3. container according to claim 1, characterized by a vertical lapped side seam (18) in said sidewall (12);  said side seam (18) extending from said closed base (14) to said uppermost curved portion (12e) on said sidewall (12) to lend stiffness to said open scoop.    4. container according to claim 3, characterized in that said lowermost curved portion (12f) is directed downwardly to provide a gripping means on the saidewall (12).    5. container according to claims 1,2,3 or 4 characterized in that said closed base (14) comprises a bottom disc having a dependent annular skirt (14a) thereon and a reentrant bend (12a) in   said.sidewall    (12) interengaged with and sealed to said dependent annular skirt (14a).    6. combined scoop and serving container for food products characterized by a frustoconical drinking cup structure having a closed base (14) and an upstanding sidewall (12); said sidewall (12) having a scalloped configuration  extending, symmetrically, from a lowermost curved portion (12f) to a substantially opposed uppermost curved portion (12e) to define an open scoop; and said uppermost curved portion (12e) comprising the initial food-engaging portion of said scoop; said lower curved portion (12f) being directed downwardly to expose a substantial portion of the interior surface of the container to define an obverse interior surface and a substantially vertical parallel line pattern (24) applied to said obverse interior surface and extending from top to bottom of said sidewall (12);  and by  a sidewall blank (12) of generally arcuate configuration at its lowermost extremity, a pair of divergent side edges (12c,12d) extending from said lowermost extremity to an uppermost edge portion (12e) adjacent the uppermost end of each said side edges (12c,12d) defining an included angle (a);  said uppermost edge portions (12e) being connected by a scalloped edge having a centrally located lowermost edge portion (12f);  said lowermost edge portion (12f) defining the said lowermost curved portion of said sidewall (12) and said uppermost edge portions (12e) together defining the said uppermost curved portion of said sidewall (12) when said side edges (12c, 12d) are lapped in parallel to form a vertical side seam (18);  and by  a pattern of chevrons (24) on the inside surface of said blank (12) having apices (24a) aligned substantially centrally of said blank (12) and legs (24b,24c) extending parallel to said parallel side edges (12c,12d) to define the same included angle (b) therebetween to provide said substantially vertical parallel line pattern adjacent to and parallel to said side seam (i8) and throughout said obverse interior surface.    7. the method of providing a frustoconical container sidewall having a vertical side seam and a substantially parallel line interior surface decor on both sides of and parallel with the side seam, characterized by the steps of:    providing an elongated strip of stock with substantially parallel side edges;  printing at least one arcuate sidewall blank on said stock transversely thereof and substantially centered thereon with divergent side edges defining a first included angle adjacent each side edge of said strip of stock; ;  printing a pattern of parallel chevrons on the opposite face of said strip of stock with each said chevron including an apex and two legs defining a second included angle substantially equal to said first included angle, the apices of said chevrons being substantially on the   longitu-    dinal center line of said strip and the legs of said chevrons being substantially parallel to respective ones of the said divergent side edges of said arcuate blanks;  cutting said arcuate blanks from said strip of stock; and  folding said arcuate blank until said side edges are overlapped in parallel to form a side seam to define a frustoconical sidewall having said substantially parallel line pattern consisting of the legs of said chevrons on either side of and parallel with said side seam on the interior surface of said frustoconical sidewall.     8. the product by the process of claim 7.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
