<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0010352
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800430
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
G02B-6/42 H01L-31/0232 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
opto-electrical semiconductor device.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
motorola incus<sep>motorola, inc.<sep>motorola, inc.vincent j. rauner 4350 e. camelback road suite 200fphoenix, arizona 85018us<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
cutler iii albert bus<sep>cutler iii, albert b.<sep>cutler iii, albert b.431 e. ellis drivetempe arizona 85282us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a package for semiconductor devices (8) includes a seg­ ment (38) of optical fiber within a ferrule (30) for direct  attachment of the package to a fiber optic connector.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
the invention relates to fiber optic transducers and, in particular, to packaging systems for active semiconductor elements such as light emitting diodes and light sensitive diodes. the packages are optically and mechanically compatible with prior art fiber optic connector systems. background of the invention u.s. patent no. 3,999,837 for a "light transmitting fiber bundle connector" describes a system for connecting and disconnecting fiber optic conductor pairs with an acceptable loss level at such an interconnection. the particular configuration described is directed at obtaining good concentricity of and contact between the mated fibers. prior art means for interfacing the fibers to active elements such as a light source or sensor are believed te be limited to relatively expensive packages which are lab intensive and are subject to breakage or other damage both during the initial assembly process and in use. the inexpensive systems which are available more relatively inefficient in terms of optical coupling between the active element and fiber optic transmission line. contemporary package designs typically utilize a pigtail optical fiber attached at one end to an optical sink or source. the other end of the pigtail may be fitted with a male connector assembly as shown in u.s. patent no. 3,999,83?, supra, or with some other suitable interface system for mating the optical fiber to the remainder of a system. u.s. patent no. 4,108,534 by noane et al and 4,114,979 by heldt are also representative of such connecting systems. brier disclosure of shrtcomings of the prior art sev-ces are rjjerco the instant invention by mounting the active semîcondu: sink or source together with a short length or segment of optical fiber in an integral package which is compatible with one of the existing fiber optic connector system such as those of patent nos. 3,999,837, 4,108,534 or supra. the integral package and short fiber provides a degree of protection to the fiber active element intercon-- nection that is not attained in prior art assemblies. the invention provides an integral package which allows easv and low cost placement and replacement of active opto -electrical- elements in a fiber optics system. the interface between active element and optical fiber is enhanced by means of use of a transparent plastic bonding agent. small diameter fibers may be accommodated since the integral package provides the necessary protection such fibers demand. therefore, it is dn object of the invention to provide package for enhanced protection of a semiconductor/fiber optic interface. it is another object of the invention to reduce the assembly complexity, thus reducing the cost of an active element/fiber optic combination. it is still another object of the invention to provide a rugged opto-electric package which is easily placeable or replaceable in opto-electrical circuits. these and other objects of the invention will be more readily understood upon reading the detailed description of the invention considered together with the drawings in which: figure 1 represents in cross-section a first embodiment of the invention, figure 2 shows in cross-section a second embodiment the invention, and figure
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
    claims       i. in a packaging system for providing a compatible interface between an active semiconductor optical element and a connector for an optical fiber transmission line, the improvement comprising:  a segment of optical fiber having two ends;  transparent plastic bonding material disposed around said optical fiber segment and on the active semiconductor element; and  package means enclosing said optical fiber segment and said active semiconductor element for maintaining one of said ends of said optical fiber   segment    in close proximity to said active element.    2. a packaging system for an active semiconductor optical element and an optical fiber segment wherein an active surface of the semiconductor is positioned perpendicular to an axis of the packaging system and electrical connections for the semiconductor protrude from the system in a first direction parallel to the axis;   the    system further comprising:  a ferrule member; and  a fiber optical segment having first and   secon    ends, said first end being adhered to said active semiconductor element with a transparent bonding agent for providing a low loss light transfer between the active semiconductor element and said optical fiber segment,   sai    ferrule member surrounding and supporting said optical fiber segment and the active semiconductor element in a predetermined spatial relationship.    3. a packaging system for an active semiconductor optical element having an optical interface and an   el-ectrical      interfac-er      s-lld      pâckairlg    system comprising:    at least one   enclosure;     an active   sesx. concuc.or      i;tnr;;     an optical fiber segment having two   ends3    one said ends of said optical fiber being in close   proximity      o    said active semiconductor element, the second of said ends being flush with a face of said at least one enclosure fort interfacing with a optical fiber transmission   lie;     and  connection means   1or    providing an electrical interface to the active semiconductor element, said connection means protruding from said enclosure.    4. the packaging system according to claim 3 further comprising transparent bonding means for adhering said one end of the optical fiber segment to said active semiconductor element.    5. the packaging system according to claim 3 wherein said enclosure is symmetrical about an axis thereof and said segment is approximately parallel to said axis.    6. the packaging system according to claim 5 further comprising transparent bonding means for adhering said optical fiber to said active semiconductor element.    7. the system according to claim 3 wherein said enclosure is a molded plastic having a relatively small diameter at said flush end and having a relatively large diameter at said close proximity end,.said larger diameter end being molded to contact and adhere to said active semiconductor element, said at least one enclosure being of molded material and enclosing said fiber segment.    8; the packaging system according to claim 7 wherein said enclosure is opaque.        :--znod    for making an optical-electrical element   so2çptising    the steps of:  molding a transparent plastic element having a   -arger    end and a smaller end, said larger end being in   intimate    contact with an active semiconductor element having electrical connections thereto, said smaller end being of predetermined dimension, said transparent plastic element being adaptable to a fiber optic transmission    ne;     molding a plastic enclosure about said transparent plastic element for protecting said transparent plastic element and said electrical connections, said electrical connections protruding from said larger end;  and  polishing said smaller end of said transparent plastic element and said plastic enclosure to form a flush composite surface for mating another transparent element thereto.    10. the method according to claim 9 wherein said plastic enclosure is opaque.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
