<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0006845
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800123
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<main>A61K-31/60</main> A61K-31/60 A61K-31/40 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
pharmaceutical composition comprising a 5-aroyl-1-c1-5 alkyl-pyrrole-2-acetic acid compound and acetaminophen or acetylsalicylic acid.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
mcneilab inc<sep>mcneil laboratories, inc.  <sep>mcneilab, inc.camp hill roadfort washington pennsylvania 19034us<sep>mcneilab, inc.<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
wong stewart<sep>wong, stewart<sep>wong, stewart527 summit avenuefort washington pennsylvaniaus<sep>wong, stewart  <sep>wong, stewart527 summit avenuefort washington pennsylvaniaus<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
the invention relates to a pharmaceutical composition  comprising a 5-aroyl-1-lower alkyl-pyrrol-2-acetic acid com­ pound and acetaminophen and/or acetylsalicylic acid having  a greater efficacy in the suppression of inflammation and  arthritic degenerations.  the 5-aroyl-1-lower alkyl-pyrrole-2-­ acetic acid compound has the formula    wherein r is -cn, -cooh, -cooalk. , conh₂, -conhalk, and  con; r₁ is alk. ; r is h, alk. ; r is h, alk. , cl, br; and ar is a  possibly substituted phenyl group.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
pharmaceutical composition comprising a 5-aroyl-1-lowerdkyl pyrrole-2-acetic acid compound and acetaminophen and/or aspirin (r) the invention relates to a pharmaceutical composition comprising a 5-aroyl-1-loweralkyl-pyrrole-2-acetic acid compound and acetaminophen and/or aspirin(r). within the past few years, a new class of non-hormonal antiinflammatory agents, namely, certain 5-aroyl-1-loweralkylpyrrole-2-acetic acid derivatives, have been reported. due to their anti-inflammatory activity, such derivatives are indicated for the inflammation and pain associated with arthritic diseases, e.g., rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis and the like. it has now been found that such derivatives, when combined with two well-known analgesics, acetaminophen and/or aspirin (r) have greater efficacy in the suppression of inflammation and arthritic degenerations than when administered alone. the 5-aroyi-1 -loweralkyl-pyrrole-2-acetic acid derivatives to be empoyed in this invention are those encompassed within the following structural formula emi1.1 wherein: r is a member selected from the group consisting of cn, h coo(loweralkyl), conh2, conh(loweralkyl) and con(lower alkyl)2; r1 is loweralkyl; r2 is a member selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and loweralkyl; r3 is a member selected from the group consisting of htiogen, loweralkyl, chloro and bromo, provided that when said r3 is chloro or bromo, then said r is cooh; and ar is a member selected from the group consisting of phenyl, trifluoromethyiphenyl, methylthiophenyl and phenyl sub stituted with one to three substituents each selected from the group consisting of loweralkyl, loweralkoxy and halo; with the proviso that when r3is hydrogen, then ar is other than loweralkylphenyl, and the non-toxic, therapeutically acceptable salts of the foregoing acids, i.e., when r is cooh, such as are obtained from appropriate organic or inorganic bases. as used herein, "loweralkyl11 and "loweralkoxy" may be straight or branch chained saturated hydrocarbons having from 1 to 5 carbon atoms, such as for example, methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, butyl, pentyl and the like alkyls, and, respectively, the corresponding alkoxys such as, methoxy, ethoxy, propoxy, isopropoxy, etc.; and "halo" represents chloro, fluoro, bromo and iodo. the anti-inflammatory compounds of formula (i) are described in u.s. patent no 3f 752,826. the preferred compounds of formula (i) for the novel combinations of this invention are those embraced by the formula: emi3.1 wherein: r' is a member selected from the group consisting of cooh and cdo(loweralkyl); '' is a member selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and methyl; is is a member selected from the group consisting of metal, ethyl, chloro and bromo, provided that when said r''' is chloro or bromo, then said r' is cooh; and arl is a member selected from the group consisting of phenyl, methylthiophenyl, loweralkylphenyl, loweralkoxyphenyl and halophenyl; and the alkali metal salts of the foregoing acids, i.e., when r' is cooh. the more preferred compounds of formula (ii) for the novel combinations of this invention are those wherein the substituted phenyls within the term "ar", are para-sltstituted. one of the most preferred compounds.is 1,4-dimethyl-5-p- chlorobenzoyl-pyrrole-2-acetic acid, generically known as "zomepirac" [see j. med. (hem., 14, 646 (1971); j. med.chem, 16, 172 (1973); and j. pharmcol. exptl. ther., 185, 127 (1973)]. when one
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
what is claimed is:      1.    a pharmaceutical composition  comprising an effective inflammation and osteogenic degeneration inhibiting amount of (1) a 5-aroyl-l-loweralkyl-pyrrole-2-acetic acid  compound as primary active agent, said   compound     being selected from (a) those having the formula emi24.1       wherein: r is a member selected from the group consisting of  cn, cooh,   coo(loweralkyl),    conh2,    conh (loweralkyl) and con(loweralkyl)     r1 is loweralkyl;    r2    is a member selected from the group consisting  of hydrogen and   loweralkyli       r3    is a member selected from the group consisting  of hydrogen, loweralkyl, chloro and bromo,  provided that-when said r3 is chloro or bromo,  then said r is cooh;  and  ar is a member selected from the group consisting  of phenyl, trifluoromethylphenyl, methylthio  phenyl and phenyl substituted with one to three  substituents each selected from the group con  sisting of loweralkyl, loweralkoxy and halo;  with the proviso that when   r3    is hydrogen, then  ar is other than lower   alkyiphenyl;    and  (b) the non-toxic therapeutically acceptable salts  of the foregoing acids, namely, acids when r is   (1) from about 0.1 to 1000 mg of a   5-aroyl-l-loweralkyl     pyrrole-2-acetic acid compounds as primary active  agent, said   5-aroyl-l-loweralkyl-prrole-2-acetic     acid compound having the formula emi25.1        wherein: :  r' is a member selected from the group consisting  of   coor,      coo(loweralkyl),    and   coo(alkali    metal);    r'    is a member selected from the group consisting  of hydrogen and methyl;    r'''    is a member selected from the group consisting  of methyl, ethyl, chloro and bromo,   provided.that     when said   r'''    is chloro or bromo, then said   b'    is  cooh; and  arl is a member selected   from    the group consisting of  phenyl, methylthiophenyl, loweralkylphenyl, lower  alkoxyphenyl and halophenyl;  and (2) from about 150 to   l000      mg    of aspirin or from about  150 to 2000 mg of acetaminophen, as a potentiating  agent  wherein said primary and potentiating agents are in  admixture with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.    8. a pharmaceutical composition suitable for inhibiting inflammation and osteogenic degeneration in dosage unit form comprising per dogage unit   (1) from about 0.2 to 500 mg of a 5-aroyl-1-loweralkyl  pyrrole-2-acetic acid compound as primary active  agent, said 5-aroyl-1-loweralkyl-pyrrole-2-acetic  compound having the structure emi26.1        wherein:    r'    is a member selected from the group consisting  of cooh, coo(loweralkyl), and coo(alkali metal);  r'' is a member selected from the group consisting  of hydrogen   and.methyl;       '''    is a member selected from the group consisting  of methyl,   ethyl    chloro and bromo, provided that  when said r''' is   chloro    qr bromo, then said r'  is cooh;  and  ar1 is a member selected from the group consisting  of phenyl, methylthiophenyl, loweralkylphenyl,  loweralkoxyphenyl and   thalophenyl;    and   (2) from    about   325 to   500 mg of aspirin or from about  325 to 1000 mg of acetaminophen as a potentiating  agent wherein said primary and potentiating agents  are in admixture with a   atpharmaceutically    acceptable  carrier.      9. a method of inhibiting inflammation and osteogenic degeneration comprising orally administering a composition sufficient to provide (1) from about 0.001 to 100 mg/kg of body weight of a  5-aroyl-1-loweralkyl-pyrrole-2-acetic acid compound  as primary inflammation and osteogenic degeneration  inhibiting compound, said 5-aroyl-l-loweralkyl  pyrrole-2-acetic acid compound being selected from  (a) those having the formula emi27.1        wherein: :  r is a member selected from the group consisting  of cn, cook, coo(loweralkyl),   conh2,     conh(loweralkyl) and   con(loweralkyl)i;       rl    is loweralkyl;    r2    is a member selected from the group consisting  of hydrogen and loweralkyl;  r3 is a member selected from the group consisting  of hydrogen, loweralkyl, chloro and bromo,  provided that when said r3 is chloro or bromo,  then said r is cooh; and  ar is a member selected from the group consisting  of phenyl,   trifiuoromethylphenyl,    methylthio  phenyl and phenyl substituted with one to three  substituents each selected from the group  consisting of loweralkyl, loweralkoxy and halo;  with the proviso that when r3 is hydrogen, then ar is other than loweralkylphenyl, and  (b) the non-toxic therapeutically   acceptable¯salts     of the foregoing acids, namely, when r is cooh; and   (2) from about 50 to 800 mg/kg of body weight of  acetaminophen or from about 50 to 300 mg/kg of body    (i)  weight of aspirin as potentiating agent.       10. a method of inhibiting inflammation and osteogenic degeneration comprising orally administering a composition sufficient to provide   (l)    from 0.01 to 50 mg/kg of body weight of a 5-aroyl  l-loweralkyl-pyrrole-2-acetic acid compound having  the structure emi28.1        wherein:    r'    is a member selected from the group consisting  of cooh,   c00(lowralkyl)    and c00(alkali metal)    r''    is a member selected from the group consisting  of hydrogen and methyl;    r'''    is a member selected from the group consisting  of methyl, ethyl, chloro and bromo, provided  that when said r''' is chloro or bromo, then  said r' is cooh;   and    ar    is a member selected from the group consisting  of phenyl, methylthiophenyl, loweralkylphenyl,    loweralkoxyphenyl    and halophenyl; and (2) from about 100 to 400 mg/kg of body weight of  acetaminophen or from about 100 to 150   mg/kg    of  body weight of aspirin as potentiating agent.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
