<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0015581
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800917
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B66B-21/12 B61B-9/00 B61K-1/00 B65G-21/00 B66B-21/00 B61B-13/00 <main>B61B-13/00</main> B61B-13/12 B61B-13/14 B65G-21/14 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
transportation device comprising a plurality of successive load carrying components.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
broqueville axel de<sep>de broqueville, axel<sep>de broqueville, axel2717 stanford streetdallas texas 75225us<sep>de broqueville, axel<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
de broqueville axel<sep>de broqueville, axel<sep>de broqueville, axel2717 stanford streetdallas texas 75225us<sep>de broqueville, axel<sep>de broqueville, axel2717 stanford streetdallas texas 75225us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a transportation system comprises a plurality of suc­ cessive load carrying components, means for moving the  components along a closed-loop path and means for con­ trolling the speed of the components and their distance  apart.  the controlling means is operable by moving the  components along the closed-loop path without rotation of  the components traverse to the closed-loop path direction.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
transportation system utilizing a stretchable train of cars and stretchable bandconveyors background of the invention 1. field of the invention the present invention relates to conveying devices of which the components are linked together such that the distance between them varies as well as their speed. 2. description of the prior art the stretchable bandconveyor its a bandconveyor made of a succesion of components sliding into or above each other and linked to each other by devices varying the distance between them such that the visible length and the speed of the components vary along their course. the stretchable train of cars is an endless succession of cars linked to each other by devices varying the distance between them. the stretchable and endless train of cars is used in combination with bandconveyors at loading/unloading stations where the speed of the cars and the distance between them is at a minimum and is synchronized over some distance with the speed of the bandconveyors in order to enable people to go from the bandconveyors to the cars and vice versa. several variable speed bandconveyors are known in the prior art. one such device uses components which are longer than they are wide. these components slide along each other, while the relative direction of motion progressively changes from a direction perpendicular to the long side of the components to a direction parallel to it, and therefore, the speed of the components varies proportionally to the ratio of their length and width. another example of a rotating-type conveying apparatus is illustrated in u.s. patent 3,485,182. in another existing device components are deiven by a single threaded rod with variable pitch. bandconveyors are also known which operate at constant speeds and go into or out of cars moving at the same speed. usually, those cars are attached to a cable moving at constant speed, and the distance between them is fixed. these prior art devices do not utilize controllable means for coupling the components and/or cars to achieve variable speed and variable distance operation while maintaining the components aligned, i.e. unrotated, with respect to the closed-loop path followed by the components. summary of the invention in accordance with the invention a transportation system is provided in which a continuous succession of components and/or cars travel in a closed circuit and are linked to each other by devices which control and vary the distance between them. the cars are permanently moving, but before each loading/unloading station the distance between the-cars is progressively reduced to a minimum by the devices linking them together. after each station, the distance between the cars is progressively increased by the same linking devices up to a maximum distance. the action of increasing or reducing the distance between the cars will automatically increase or reduce the speed of the cars proportionally to the distance between the cars (including the car length). therefore the speed of the cars is at a minimum at the station. the loading/unloading platform at the station consists of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
what is claimed is:    1. a transportation device comprising:  a plurality of successive load carrying components,  means for moving said components along a closed-loop path, and  means for controlling the speed of said components and their distance apart, said controlling means operable by moving said components along said closed loop path without rotation of said components traversed to said closed-loop path.    2. a transportation device as recited in claim 1, wherein said controlling means comprises:  a plurality of sets of articulated rods;  each of said components attached to one end of at least one of said sets of articulated rods and the next said component attached to the opposite end of the same set of articulated rods;  two rails positioned along said path at a varying distance from one another;  at least some of the articulations of said same set of articulated rods sliding on said rails, such that the variations of the distance of said rails varies the distance between the ends of the same set of articulated rods and therefore the distance beween consecutive components.      3. a transportation device as recited in claim 1, wherein said controlling means comprises:  threaded rods and nuts associated therewith;  means for attaching at least one of said moving components to one end of at least one threaded rod and the next component to at least one nut associated therewith; and  means for rotating said nuts for increasing or decreasing the distance between consecutive components.    4. a transportation device as recited in claim 3, wherein said means for rotating said nuts comprises a set of gear wheels fixed to each of the said components, and a fixed rack positioned along said path, and gear wheels driven by said rack.      5.    a transportation device as recited in claim 1, wherein said controlling means comprises winches and associated cables; means for attaching said components to one end of at least one said cable and the other end to an associated winch positioned in an adjacent component, such that the winding or unwinding of the winch reduces or increases the distance between consecutive components.    6. a transportation device of claim 5, wherein said winches are driven by sets of gear-wheels positioned in each said component, said gear-wheels  driven by toothed wheels on said components and racks fixed along said path.    7. a transportation device as recited in any one of claims 1-6, further comprising spring biasing means connected between consecutive components for placing same under tension at least over a part of said path in order to prevent or reduce the buckling or folding of said controlling means.    8. a transportation device as recited in any one of claims 1-6, wherein said components support a surface for conveying loads, said surface expandable or contractable in length as said component distance increases or decreases thereby forming a bandconveyor.    9. a transportation device as recited in   claim 1    further comprising a bandconveyor positioned at a station along said path for permitting passengers to go from said bandconveyor to said components and vice-versa; said controlling means varying the distance between said components to a minimum at said stations, and said device further comprising means for synchronizing the speed of said bandconveyor with the speed of said components at said station.    10. a transportation device as recited in claim 9, wherein said bandconveyor comprises:  a plurality of load carrying elements;  means for moving said elements along a closed-loop path; and.    means for controlling the speed of said elements and their distance apart, said controlling means operable by moving said elements along said closed-loop path without rotation of said elements traverse to said closed-loop path.      11. a transporation device as recited in claim 10, wherein said elements support a surface for conveying loads, said surface expandable or contractable in length as said element distance increases or decreases thereby providing an unbroken surface for passenger transport.    12. a transportation device as recited in claim 11, wherein said components are cars having doors thereon and said device further comprises means for automatically opening said doors when the distance between adjacent cars is at a minimum.    13. a transportation device as recited in claim 12, wherein said opening means comprises at least one lever extending outside said car for contact with an adjacent car when said cars move relatively close together and means for coupling said lever with said doors for opening same.    14. a transportation device as recited in claim 13, further comprising means for biasing said lever for extending outside said car and means for coupling said lever to said doors for automatically closing same when said cars move relatively far apart.    15. a transportation device as recited in claim 1, wherein each of said components have motor means for moving same along said path and said controlling means comprises means for measuring the distance between adjacent components and means responsive to said measured distance for controlling said motor means.      16. a transportation device as recited in claim 1, wherein each of said components have motor means for moving same along said path and said controlling mean comprises means for measuring the velocity of said component and means responsive to said measured velocity for controlling said motor means.     17. a transportation device as recited in claim 15, further comprising means for measuring the velocity of said components and means responsive to said measured velocity and said measured distance for controlling said motor means whereby the distance and velocity of each component may be individually controlled without mechanical interconnection of adjacent components.    18. a transportation device as recited in claim 6, wherein said winches are driven by sets of gear-wheels positioned in each said component, said gear-wheels driven by a friction wheel on each component making contact with a rail fixed along said path.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
