<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0007177
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800123
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
E05D-5/02 B60J-5/04 E05D-5/00 B60P-3/32 E06B-3/70 E06B-3/72 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
caravan door, hinge member therefor, method of assembling of said door and caravan comprising a door surround.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
percy lane group ltdgb <sep>percy lane group limited <sep>percy lane group limited79, colmore rowbirmingham b3 2apgb<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
cartwright alan joseph robertgb<sep>newman anthonygb<sep>overfield thomas donaldgb<sep>cartwright, alan joseph robert<sep>newman, anthony<sep>overfield, thomas donald<sep>cartwright, alan joseph robert44 wordsworth roadharpenden hertfordshiregb<sep>newman, anthony30 gillway lanetamworth staffsgb<sep>overfield, thomas donaldtrouts rise 41 wharton avenuesolihull west midlandsgb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
the invention is concerned with a caravan door of the  kind comprising a frame, constituted by a peripheral frame  member (6) and front and rear facing panels (10,11) enclosing  an interior cavity.  hinge members (16) are mounted on the  frame member (6) with portions (18) thereof extending  through slots (14) in the frame member into the interior cavity  (13).  connected to and extending between said portions (18)  is a cross member (20).  the hinge members (16) are urged  into tight abutting engagement with the frame member (6) by  bracing means in the form of spacer members (24) acting  between the interior of the framework (6) and the cross  member (20).  inter-engagement between foam material fil­ ling the cavity (13) with the portions (18) and the cross  member (20) restrains movement of the hinge members rela­ tive to the door as a whole, whereby the longitudinal axis of  the hinge members (16) are retained in a desired alignment.  advantageously the caravan comprises a door surround  providing the opening, which provides one or more lip por­ tions (54) which are inclined to the plane of the opening (4) in a  manner such as to present a sloping surface to the door on  closing movement thereof.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
title: "improvements relating to doors" description of invention this invention concerns improvelllents relating to doors, and ill particular to caravan doors. in the manufacture of caravans, it is desirable practice to provide a surround bounding a door opening which is afforded with hinge parts, upon which a prefrabricated door comprising complimentary hinge members is hung. this requires the door to have been prefabricated with the hinge members in accurate, predetermined positions. the difficulty of providing a caravan door with accurately located hinge members is compounded where the door is of the kind (hereinafter referred to as being of the kind specified) comprising a frame which bounds an interior cavity filled with for example cellular plastics material. according to this invention there is provided a caravan door of tulle kind specified, comprising a frame member, through which two slots extend in spaced relationship to one another along one side thereof, and two hinge members located against the frame member one adjaceilt to each of the slots, each hinge member comprising a part, or )#iviiir, s@cured thereto a separate part, which extends thro#gb the slot into the interior cavity of the door, material. in said cavity restraining movement of said parts in tiie cavity, and hence movement of the @hinge members relative to tlle frame member. preferably, wiiere the frame complises spaced front and rear facing panels, each of said parts extends into the interior cavity between said front and rear facing panels, for example transversely of the said side of the frame member and away from the hinge member with which it is associated, and may be apertured with the material in the cavity, conveniently foam material, extending throughthe apertures. said parts may act in conjunction with the foam material as the primary means of prevention of movement of the hinge members relative to the frame member; alternatively or in addition a further member connected to and extending between the said parts may act on conjunction with the foam material as a means of restrain to movement of the hinge members relative to the frame member. preferably bracing means is utilised, operative at least initially to hold the hinge members in a tightly abutting relationship with tale frame member. such bracing means may be operati.are-between the frame member and the said parts, or (if present) between tlie frame member and the further member. this invention also provides a method of assembly of a caravan door of the kind specified, in which: (a) part of a framework is assembled, comprising at least one peripheral frame member and a facing panel secured to tiie frame member, said frame member being afforded with two slots extending in spaced relation along one side of the framework; (b) two hinge members, each comprising or having a part secured thereto, are presented to the frame member from the outer side thereof and the part of each is inserted through one of the slots; (c) a cross member is connected to, extending between the two parts on the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims   1. a caravan door of   t ] )e      kind      specified,      coliprising    a frame member through wich two slots extend in spaced relationsllip to one another along one side thereof, and two   hinge    members located against the frame member one adjacent to each of the slots, each hinge member comprising a part, or having secured thereto a separate part, which extends through   tlle    slot into the interior cavity of   tlle    door, material in the cavity restraining movenient of said parts in   tlle    cavity,   and    hence movement of the hinge members relative to the fraiiie   meniber.      2. a caravan door according to claim 1 wherein the frame comprises spaced front and rear facing panels and each of said parts extends into   the    interior cavity between said facing panels.   30 a caravan door according to claim 2 wherein each of said parts extends transversely of said side of the frame member away from the hinge member   witji    which it is associated.   4. a caravan door according to any one of the   preceding    clainis wherein each of said parts is apertured with material in the cavity extending   througil      tlie    apertures.   5. a caravan door according to any one of   the    preceding claims comprising a   further    member in said interior cavity which is connected to and extends between said parts, said further   member    acting in conjunction   with    the material   in      tiie    cavity to restrain movement of   tlle    hinge members relative to   the    franc member.   6. a caravan door according to any one of the preceding clainis   comprising    bracing nieans operative at least  initially to hold the hinge members ill tigiltly abutting relationship with the frame   member.      7. a caravan door according to claim 6 wherein said bracing means is operative between the frame member and said parts.   8. a   hinge    member   accordi llg    to claim 6, as appendant to claim 5, wherein said bracing means is operative between the   frame    member and said   further    member.   9. a method of assembly of a caravan door of the kind specified, in which:-¯ (a) part of a framework is   assembled,    comprising at  lest one peripheral frame member and a    facing    panel secured to   tiie    frame   member,     said frame member being afforded   with    two slots  extending in spaced relation along one side  of the framework; (b) two hinge members, each comprising or having a  part secured thereto, are presented to the  frame member from   t ] #e      ollter    side   t ] lereof    and the  part of each is inserted   tllrougal    one of the slots; (c) a cross member is connected to, extending  between the two parts on the idler side of the  frame member; ; (d)   bracing    means is positioned between   the    cross    member    and the inner   side    of   tlie    frame member  to pull the hinge members into close abutment    with    the outer side of   tiie    frame member; (e) the second facing panel is secured to tile frame  member   in    spaced relation with   tiie    first  said facing panel, affording in   colltiunction       therewith and with the frame   nlelllber    a cavity    within    which said parts of the   gline    members,  the cross member and the bracing means extend; ; (f) hinge members of the door are   mounted    on a jig    which    retain the hinge members in a desired  axial orientation relative to the door; (g) a curable plastics material is injected into the  cavity.   loo a caravan comprising a door surround providing an opening, corner portions of which are concave-curved, and a door mounted for   movement    relative to the opening between open and closed positions, the door being provided with convex-curved corner portions, wherein the door surround provides one or more lip portions inclined to the plane of   the    opening in a   manner    such as to present a sloping surface to the door on closing movement thereof, 11. a caravan according to claim 10   wherein    there is one   such    lip portion   wliicli    is   continuolls    around   tiie    interior of the surround, and   which    presents a continuous sloping surface to   tlie    door, 12. a caravan according to claim 11 wherein the sloping surface is concave-curved   in    planes extending at right angles to the plane of the opening.    13. a caravan according to   ally    one of claims 10,11 and 12 comprising a continuous resilient seal which is   resiliently    compressed between   tlle    door and said sloping surface on closing of the door.   13. a caravan door, constructed   an(3    arranged substantially as hereinbefore described   with    reference to   tiie    accompanying drawings.     11. a method of assembly of a caravan door, when carried out substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to the accompanying   drawi.ngs.     
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
