<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0012557
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800625
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<main>B01D-13/04</main> B01D-71/00 C08J-5/22 B01D-71/38 C08L-29/04 B01D-71/34 B01D-67/00 C08L-27/16 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
hydrophilic polymeric membranes, process for their preparation, their use as ultrafiltration membranes, and precursor membranes adapted to be converted thereto.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
abcor incus<sep>abcor, inc.<sep>abcor, inc.850 main streetwilmington massachusetts 01887us<sep>abcor, inc.<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
jakabhazy stephen z<sep>zeman leos j<sep>jakabhazy, stephen z.<sep>zeman, leos j.<sep>jakabhazy, stephen z.123 newton streetweston massachusettsus<sep>zeman, leos j.10 marchant roadwinchester massachusettsus<sep>jakabhazy, stephen z.<sep>zeman, leos j.<sep>jakabhazy, stephen z.123 newton streetweston massachusettsus<sep>zeman, leos j.10 marchant roadwinchester massachusettsus<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
the invention provides a hydrophilic microporous poly­ meric membrane comprising an intimate blend of a vinylidene  fluoride polymer and from 20 to 75% by weight, based on to­ tal polymer, of a vinyl alcohol polymer.  this membrane may  be prepared by casting a thin film of a casting solution com­ prising a solution of a vinylidene fluoride polymer and from 35  to 85 weight percent, based on total polymer, of a vinyl ace­ tate polymer in a solvent on a support base, partially evapo­ rating the solvent from the cast film, contacting the partially  evaporated cast film with a leaching liquid to render the film  microporous, and hydrolyzing the vinyl acetate polymer in the  leached membrane to convert the acetate groups to hydroxyl  groups and provide a membrane having good mechanical  strength and hydrophilic properties.  the membrane is useful as an ultrafiitration membrane,  particularly in the treatment of oil-in-water emulsions or  whey.  by first forming a film of the vinylidene fluoride polymer  and the vinyl acetate polymer, the difficulty previously associ­ ated with incorporating a hydrophilic polymer, such as a vinyl  alcohol polymer, in a hydrophobic polymer, such as a vinyli­ dene fluoride polymer is obviated.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
description "hydrophilic polymeric membranes, process for their preparation, their use as ultrafiltration membranes, and precursor membranes adapted to be converted thereto" this application is directed to improved membranes which exhibit good hydrophilic properties, to a process for their preparation which overcomes some of the problems and difficulties of preparing known membranes, to the use of the improved membranes in ultrafiltration, particularly in the dairy field, for example for the ultrafiltration of whey, or in the treatment of oil-inwater emulsions, such as the ultrafiltration of soluble cutting-oil emulsions. many polymers have been used or suggested for use as membrane materials in membrane processes, such as ultrafiltration, reverse osmosis and electrodialysis membrane processes. polymeric membranes are employed for separating selectively molecules, ions and suspended particles from carrier fluids. polymeric membranes have been employed and suggested for ultrafiltration purposes, for separating proteins and other comparatively large molecules from water, such as, for example, the separation of proteins from lactose and mineral salts in whey, which is a by-product of the dairy industry. in addition, polymeric membranes also have been suggested for use in the ultrafiltration of soluble or suspended oils, such as the so-called water-soluble oils, which are often the effluent of operations which employ oils as coolants for high-speed metal-cutting machines. in separations involving water-based carriers, it is desirable to employ a polymeric membrane which has good mechanical strength and which also exhibits desirable hydrophilic properties. membranes of fluorocarbon polymers, such as polyvinylidene fluoride (pvdf), are tough, having a good mechanical strength, and are chemically inert, so that they may be used for long periods in various environments. they are, however, hydrophobic in character and are not suitable for use in water-based separations. good reasons thus exist for the modification of the extreme hydrophobic character of a pvdf membrane in order to render the membrane and membrane surface more hydrophilic in character. chemical modification of pvdf is difficult, because of the extreme inertness and chemical resistance of pvdf. the incorporation of other polymerncomponents into pvdf, which polymer components themselves possess desirable properties which one would want to impart to pvdf, such as improved hydrophilic nature, presents other difficulties. typically the compatibility of pvdf with hydrophilic polymers in general is very limited. moreover, membranes made of pvdf polymeric blends, which employ a high enough concentration of the hydrophilic component, such as polyvinyl pyrrolidone, to impart sufficient hydrophilic characteristics to the resulting membrane surface, possess very low mechanical strength. often when employed at very high levels, the hydrophilic polymer blended with the hydrophobic polymer leaches out from a membrane prepared from the blend. therefore, while it is very desirable to prepare an improved membrane of a fluorocarbon, such -as pvdf, having hydrophilic properties, there has been considerable difficulty in preparing such a membrane. it has been found that an improved polymeric membrane can be prepared from a blend of a hydrophobic polymer, such as a hydrophobic, inert, chemically resistant, fluorocarbon polymer, especially a vinylidene fluoride polymer, and a precursor polymer such as a vinyl
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
   claims       1. a hydrophilic microporous polymeric membrane comprising an intimate blend of a vinylidene fluoride polymer and from 20 to 75% by weight, based on total polymer, of a vinyl alcohol polymer.    2. a membrane according to claim 1 wherein the vinylidene fluoride polymer has a substantially regular and linear structure and is of high crystallinity.    3. a membrane according to claim 1 or 2 wherein the vinyl alcohol polymer is the hydrolysis product of a vinyl acetate homopolymer having a molecular weight of at least 106 daltons.    4. a membrane according to claim 1, 2 or 3 which contains from 43 to 67% by weight of the vinyl alcohol polymer.    5. a process for preparing a hydrophilic microporous   polymers    membrane, which process comprises casting a thin film of a casting solution comprising a solution of a vinylidene fluoride polymer and from 35 to 85 weight percent, based on total polymer, of a vinyl acetate polymer in a solvent on a support base, partially evaporating the solvent from the cast film, contacting the partially evaporated cast film with a leaching liquid to render the film microporous, and hydrolyzing the vinyl acetate polymer in the leached membrane to convert the acetate groups to hydroxyl groups and provide a membrane having good mechanical strength and hydrophilic properties.    6. a process according to claim 5 wherein the vinylidene fluoride polymer has a substantially regular and linear structure and is of high crystallinity.      7. a process according to claim 5 or 6 wherein the vinyl acetate polymer is a polyvinyl acetate    6 having a molecular weight of at least 10 daltons.       8. a process according to claim 5, 6 or 7 wherein the casting solution contains from 60 to 80 weight percent, based on total polymer, of the vinyl acetate polymer.    9. a process according to any one of claims 5 to 8 wherein the casting solution comprises from 15 to 25% by weight of polymer.    10. a process according to any one of claims 5 to 9 wherein the casting solution comprises, as polar solvent, at least one of dimethyl acetamide, dimethyl formamide, n-methyl pyrrolidone, dimethyl sulphoxide and acetone.    11. a process according to any one of claims 5 to 10 wherein the casting solution also comprises a diluent.    12. a process according to claim 11 wherein the diluent is triethyl phosphate or sulpholane.    13. a process according to claim 12 wherein the casting solution comprises dimethyl formamide or acetone as solvent and   triethylphosphate    as diluent.    14. a process according to claim 12 wherein the casting solution comprises n-methyl pyrrolidone as solvent and sulpholane as diluent.    15. a process according to any one of claims 5 to 14 wherein the casting solution is cast in a thin film onto a porous and fibrous support base.    16. a process according to any one of claims 5 to 15 wherein the film is cast in a thickness of 0.13 to 1.3 mm.      17. a process according to any one of claims 5 to 16 wherein partial evaporation of solvent is brought about by exposing the cast film to air for between 1 and 60 seconds.    18. a process according to any one of claims 5 to 17 wherein the leaching liquid comprises water and the leaching temperature is from 40 to   80 c.       19. a process according to any one of claims 5 to 18 wherein substantially all of the vinyl acetate groups are hydrolyzed to vinyl alcohol groups.    20. a process according to any one of claims 5 to 19 which comprises hydrolyzing the leached membrane by the nonaqueous sodium methanolate-catalyzed methanolysis of the vinyl acetate.    21. a process according to any one of claims 5 to 19 which comprises hydrolyzing the leached membrane by an aqueous acid or base-catalyzed hydrolysis reaction.    22. a process according to   claim    21 wherein the leached membrane is hydrolyzed by contact with sulphuric acid.    23. a process according to any one of claims 5 to 22 comprising the additional step of producing a modified hydrophilic membrane by treatment thereof with a reactant capable of reacting with hydroxyl groups.    24. a process according to claim 23 wherein the reactant is a styrene sulphonic acid monomer.     25. use of a membrane as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4 or as produced by a process as claimed in any one of claims 5 to 24 as an ultrafiltration membrane in the ultrafiltration of oil-in-water emulsions or whey.    26. a precursor membrane adapted to be converted by hydrolysis into a membrane as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4, which precursor membrane comprises an intimate blend of a vinylidene fluoride polymer and from  about 35 to about 85% by weight, based on total polymer, of a vinyl acetate polymer.    27. a precursor membrane according to claim 26 comprising about 60 to about 80% by weight of the vinyl acetate polymer.    28. a precursor membrane according to claim 26 or 27 wherein the vinyl acetate polymer is a polyvinyl acetate having a molecular weight of at least 106 daltons.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
