<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0017402
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19801015
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B60D-1/00 B60D-1/01 B60P-3/12 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
improvements in or relating to vehicle hitches.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
creaser w r <sep>creaser, william robert<sep>creaser, william robert "south view" howden road eastrington, goole north humberside dn14 7plgb<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
creaser william robert<sep>creaser, william robert<sep>creaser, william robert"south view" howden roadeastrington, goole north humberside dn14 7plgb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a vehicle hitch for enabling the front end of a vehicle (10)  to be raised by a recovery vehicle (32) without damaging the  bodywork of the vehicle (10) comprises a pair of spaced,  parallel lifting beams (18) each having a seat assembly (40)  for engaging the vehicle axle (42), quick release means such  as a chain for fixing the rear end of each beam (18) to the  vehicle frame (12) and similar quick release means for  attaching the towing ends of the beams (18) to the towing  hitch and/or lifting assembly (38) of the recovery vehicle.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
description "improvements in or relating to vehicule hitches" this invention concerns vehicle hitches or towing assemblies and relates more particularly, although not exclusively, to such hitches for use in connection with heavy vehicles such as passenger coaches. it is common practice in the construction of passenger coaches to fabricate much of the bodywork from materials such as glass fibre reinforced plastics, which have good weather-resistant properties but which, at least when in the form of relatively thin panels or the like, are inechanically somewhat fragile. having regard, therefore, to the substantial overhang of the vehicle bodg beyond its wheel axles, a problem usually arises in the case of vehicle failure, when difficulty caa be experienced in attaching towing means to a suitable part of the vehicle, without damaging the fragile bodywork. according to the present invention, a vehicle hitch intended to overcome this problem comprises a cradle which, intermediate its ends, has axle receiving and locating means engageable with a vehicle axle to provide a seat therefor, and a towing connection at a first one of the cradle ends, the other cradle end having means for releasable connection to the vehicle chassis or frame. when the towing end of the cradle is lifted, therefore, as by a recovery vehicle, the axle seat provided by the cradle co-operates with the releasable connection securing said other cradle end to tne chassis or frame to define a position of said cradle below and substantially parallel to the chassis or frame and spaced from the vehicle bodywork. the cradle may take the form of a framework or of a platform or a size and strength appropriate to the weights of vehicles with which it is intended to be used and if desired. it may be fitted with small wheels or with skids to facilitate. handling and manoeuvering. ii one convenient form, the cradle is a framework which is capable of being dlsntntled when not in use for ease of transportation, and comprises a pair of rolled steel sections such as i-beams constituting lifting members adapted adjacent the towing end of the cradle to receive a detachable spacer member of adjustable length. releasable fastening means such as chains may, if desired, be passed around the vehicle axle and main frame members to maintain the axle secured in its seat on the cradle, means being provided on the cradle for maintaining the chains secured thereto. in place of chains, however, the cradle may carry mechanically or hydraulically operated jaws or clamps for engaging the axle and the vehicle frame. in another embodiment of the invention, the cradle comprises a pair of independent lifting members, such as i-beams, in which each lifting member is provided with a saddle assembly presenting a seat for the vehicle axle and wherein the spacing at the front end of the cradle is established not by a spacer member incorporated in the cradle but by a towing component such as a hitch bar which is part of the towing equipment of a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
    cija d.       1. a vehicle hitch member   ecrpri3inr    an elongate beam, seat means intermediate the ends of said beam for engaging beneath an axle of a vehicle to be lifted and towed, one of said ends having a towing connection, for attachment to a recovery vehicle, and releasable fastening means at the other end of said beam for securing said other end in fixed relation to the frame of the vehicle to be lifted.    2. a vehicle hitch member as claimed in claim 1, in which said seat means is presented in a saddle assembly which is adjustable lengthwise along the beam.    3. a vehicle hitch member as claimed in claim 2, in which said beam is an i-section beam and said saddle assembly comprises a carrier plate retained on an upper flange of said beam by lateral guide means co-operating with said flange and wherein a pair of longitudinally spaced seat plates which are inclined in opposite directions with respect to the main axis of the beam are mounted on said carrier plate to define an axle-receiving seat thereon.    4. a vehicle hitch member as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3, in   which    the releasable fastening means at said other end of said beam includes a chain secured to said other end of said beam to enable a free end of said chain to pass around the frame of the vehicle to be lifted,   and    means for securing said free end to or in fixed relation to said beam after it has been engaged around said frame.    5. a vehicle hitch member as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, in which the towing   connection    comprises one or more chains secured to said one end of said beam and detachably engageable by a   toying    hitch of said recovery vehicle.      6.    a vehicle hitch comprising a pair of hitch    members as claimed in any chile one nf the pr?ceclin6 claims arranged in transversaly spaced rallel parallel relation to     constitute a cradle for receiving an axle or axle portion of the vehicle to be lifted.    7. a vehicle hitch comprising a cradle which, intermediate its ends, has axle receiving and locating means engageable with a vehicle axle to provide a seat therefor, and a towing connection at a first one of the cradle ends, the other cradle end having means for releasable connection to the vehicle frame or chassis.      8.    a vehicle hitch as claimed in claim 7,   iu    which said cradle comprises a pair of spaced parallel, elongate beams each having axle receiving and locating means intermediate its ends and a spacer member positioned between said beams adjacent the towing connection ends thereof0  9. a vehicle hitch as claimed in claim 8, in which said spacer member is detachably connected between said beams.     10. a vehicle hitch as claimed in claim 8 or claim   9,    in which said spacer member is of adjustable length.    11. a vehicle hitch as claimed in any one of claims 7 to 10, further comprising releasable fastening means for securing said axle receiving and locating   means    to said axle.    12. vehicle hitches and hitch members therefor, constructed and arranged substantially as hereinbefore described, with reference to and as illustrated in the accompanying drawings.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
