<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0011461
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800528
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
G08B-17/06 G08B-25/04 G08B-25/01 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
an improved fire detection system.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
british insulated callendersgb<sep>bicc limited<sep>bicc limited21, bloomsbury streetlondon, wc1b 3qngb<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
gale philip franklingb <sep>sadler alan arthur gb<sep>williams stephengb<sep>gale, philip franklin<sep>sadler, alan arthur<sep>williams, stephen<sep>gale, philip franklingarden cottage sacombe greenware, hertfordshiregb<sep>sadler, alan arthur2 eversley closefrodsham warrington, cheshiregb<sep>williams, stephen22 the ridgewayware, herdfordshiregb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a monitoring system for detecting fire or other elevated  temperature conditions in a plurality of discrete zones z₁, z₂,  z₃, etc.  comprises a loop box 1 which has two pairs of termi­ nals a and b to each of which is connected one end of a pair  of conductors of a linear temperature detector cable passing  through each of the discrete zones.  adjacent zones are sec­ tionalised by zone boxes 9, each of which comprises a pair of  balanced resistors, one resistor connected in series in one  conductor of the loop and the other resistor being connected  in series in the other conductor.  the loop box 1 has a con­ stant current generator 2 which can be connected via an elec­ tronic switch 3 to either the a or b end of the loop 4; an  electronic switch 5 which connects one of two fixed resistors  6 directly across the two conductors of the loop at the oppo­ site end to that to which the generator 2 is connected; and an  electronic switch 7 which connects a voltage measuring cir­ cuit 8 onto the terminals of the loop to which the generator 2  is connected.  electronic switches 3, 5 and 7 are operated by  control circuits 10 whose output signals are fed to a display  device 11, which shows if the system is operating normally,  identifies the nature of any abnormalities and indicates any  discrete zone in which there is a short circuit caused by a fire,  and to external alarms.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
an improved fire detection system this invention relates to a monitoring system for detecting fire or other elevated temperature conditions. in an electric power station, factory or other establishment which comprises a plurality of separate buildings or at least one building which, for the purposes of fire prevention, is divided into a plurality of discrete zones by fire walls, fire doors or other means, it is the general practice to employ a system of fire detection known as a 'zoned' system. in a 'zoned' system, each discrete zone or each building constituting a discrete zone has its own associated fire detector comprising a length of temperature sensitive cable which is connected to a terminal box circuitry for the detection of a change in a characteristic of the cable when the cable is exposed to localised heating such as may occur in the event of a fire. each terminal box is located close to its associated temperature sensitive cable and must be of such a form that it will withstand exposure to fire. since the circuitry of each terminal box must remain active under fire conditions, the box must be supplied with power through fire-resistant cable and if, as is customary, the circuitry of each termination box is connected to a central audible and/or visual alarm system, fire resistant cables are also required for this purpose usually the central alarm system is installed in a central control room in which is also installed a central display or annunciator providing visual identification of any discrete zone or building constituting a discrete zone in which a fire has been detected. since each discrete zone or building constituting a discrete zone has its own terminal box and associated fire resistant cables for the supply of power to and for the transmission of an alarm signal from its circuitry, such a 'zone' system of fire detection is expensive both in equipment and installation. the number of terminal boxes employed however, inevitably reduces the overall reliability of the system because the chances that the circuitry of at least one of the terminal boxes may become faulty, so that the zone or building that it serves is unprotected, are greatly increased. moreover, slaving each discrete zone or building constituting a discrete zone completely independent of each of the other zones or buildings in respect of temperature sensing circuitry and power supply and signal transmitting cables takes no account of the very low probability that fires in two or more discrete zones or buildings may occur at one and the same time.. it is an object of the present invention to provide an improved monitoring system for detecting fire or other elevated temperature conditions in a plurality of discrete zones, which system is less expensive and substantially more reliable than 'zoned' fire detection systems hitherto proposed and used. according to the invention, the monitoring system comprises a pair of elongate electric conductors passing through each of said plurality of discrete zones and, over at least that part of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
what we claim is:   1. a   monitoring    system for detecting fire or other elevated temperature conditions in a plurality of discrete zones, characterised in that the system comprises a pair of elongate electric conductors passing through each of said plurality of discrete zones and, over at least that part of the length of the pair passing through each zone, being of such a construction that the pair of conductors form part of a linear sensor extending along said part of the length of the pair; means, interconnected in the length of the pair of conductors between each adjacent pair of discrete zones, for sectionalising the length of the pair into a plurality of discrete linear sensors connected in series;  means, connected to each end of the length of the pair to form a loop, for injecting a signal into the pair of conductors and for measuring the terminal voltage of the loop in order to identify that one of the linear sensors which has detected an unacceptable rise in temperature in the discrete zone in which it is located; and, connected to the signal injecting and voltage measuring means, an audible and/or visual alarm for signifying the existence of a fire or an unacceptable elevated temperature condition and/or a device for indicating the discrete zone in which the fire or elevated temperature condition has been detected.   2. a monitoring system is claimed in claim 1, characterised in that the means for injecting a signal into the pair of conductors of, and for measuring the terminal voltage of, the loop are housed at a central station that is remote from the discrete zones.   3. a monitoring system is claimed in claim 1 or 2, characterised in that one or each end of the pair of elongate  electric conductors constituting the loop, or   sectionalgsiagµ|    means at said end of the pair, is indirectly connected to the means for injecting a signal into the pair of conductors of, and for measuring the terminal voltage of, the loop by fireresistant cable or other non-sensing cable.   4. a monitoring system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterised in that adjacent discrete zones of the loop are interconnected by fire-resistant cable or other non-sensing cable connected in series in the loop.   5. a monitoring system as claimed in claim 4, characterised in that interconnecting non-sensing cables are regarded as separate zones.   6. a monitoring system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterised in that each means for sectionalising the length of the pair into a plurality of discrete linear sensors connected in series comprises a pair of balanced resistors, one resistor of the pair of resistors being connected in series in one of said pair of conductors and the other resistor of the pair being connected in series in the other conductor of said pair of conductors.   7. a monitoring system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterised in that the pair of elongate conductors of the loop is a component part of an electric cable.   8. a monitoring system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterised in that the means for injecting a signal into the pair of conductors is a constant current source.   9. a monitoring system as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 7, characterised in that the means for injecting a signal into the pair of conductors is a constant alternating current source having a frequency in the range 30 to 70 c/s.      10. a monitoring system as   clad red    in any one of the preceding claims, characterised in that the system includes two or more than two separate loops, each loop comprising a plurality of discrete linear sensors connected in series and having its own means for injecting a signal into the pair of conductors of the loop and for measuring the terminal voltage of the loop, and a master controller which controls each of said means and which is connected to an audible and/or visual alarm for signifying the existence of a fire or other unacceptable elevated temperature condition and/or a device for indicating the discrete zone in which the fire or other elevated temperature condition has been detected, the alarm and/or device being connected to all of said loops.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
