<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0012604
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800625
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B62K-15/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
folding bicycle.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
szumowski juan jorge  <sep>szumowski, juan jorge<sep>szumowski, juan jorgeflat c15 sloane avenue mansions sloane avenuelondon. s.w.3.gb<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
szumowski juan jorge<sep>szumowski, juan jorge<sep>szumowski, juan jorgeflat c15 sloane avenue mansions sloane avenuelondon. s.w.3.gb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a folding bicycle has a front wheel pivotally mounted to a  connecting member (22) which is itself pivotable relative to a  frame member (13).  the frame member (13) is in turn pivota­ ble relative to the rear wheel assembly (17) about the axis (15)  of the pedals.  the front wheel is rotatable through 180° rela­ tive to the rear of the bicycle; this may be achieved by having  the front wheel (2) pivot 90° relative to the connecting mem­ ber (22) and then having the connecting member (22) pivot  90° relative to the frame member (13) so that the front wheel  is now facing rearwardly in a plane offset relative to the rear  wheel.  pivoting of the frame member (13) and front wheel  about the axis of the pedals brings the two wheels into overly­ ing relation with one another providing a particularly compact  form for storage and carrying.  the saddle (18) is supported  by two supporting strips (19) which depend to either side of  the rear wheel assembly so that the saddle can be lowered.   variants of the above described bicycle are also disclosed.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
description "folding bicycle" the present invention relates to a folding bicycle. a number of forms of bicycle are known which may be folded up to a certain degree such that their volume when packed is small enough and their weight light enough to be carried by a person, or to be placed easily within a vehicle, for example, a train or the back of a car. such a bicycle is especially useful for a person travelling to or from work, who may go a major part of the distance by train, and wish to go the small distance between station and office and/or station and home on a bicycle to save time. thus it is desirable that the bicycle is both easy and quick to unfold and to fold, and that it takes up a minimum of room. known folding bicycles have joints with nut and bolt arrangements which must be unscrewed before the bicycle can be folded up, this operation being time consuming, especially when a number of these joints are used to ensure that the bicycle will pack into a small volume. furthermore, the more joints that there are on a bicycle then the weaker the overall construction. thus prior forms of bicycles have had to sacrifice economy in volume when packed, for a sturdier form of construction or vice versa. an alternative way of making such a bicycle compact when folded is to have smaller wheels, and diameters of between 0.3 and a third of a metre are common. however most people find that much more effort is required to ride such bicycles than those having a diameter of two thirds of a metre. according to the present invention, there is provided a folding bicycle having front and rear wheels and a frame, the front wheel being pivotable through 1800 during folding of the bicycle, and the bicycle being foldable about an intermediate axis extending transversely with respect to the frame so that the front and rear wheels lie side-by-side. preferably the frame comprises a frame member and a rear assembly which are pivoted relative to one another about said intermediate axis. in this way, the bicycle is folded only about two sections of the frame, so that the strength of the structure is not greatly decreased, but the bicycle is compact when folded. preferably, the frame member and also if provided as a separate item, a support for the saddle are arcuate and arranged to be concentric with and closely spaced from the periphery of a wheel, when the bicycle is in a folded condition. advantageously in one embodiment the frame member subtends an arc of a circle between 900 and 1800, and preferably about 1200 in one embodiment pivoting of the handlebars and front wheel from the straight ahead position is limited to 900, at least in one direction. on folding up, when this pivoting movement is made, the connecting 0 member is then pivoted 90 relative to the frame member with the result that
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims    1. a folding bicycle having front and rear wheels and a frame characterised in that the front wheel is pivotable through 1800 during folding of the bicycle, and the bicycle is foldable about an intermediate axis extending transversely with respect to the frame so that the front and rear wheels lie side-by-side.    2. a bicycle according to claim 1 characterised in that the frame comprises a frame member and a rear assembly which are pivoted relative to one another about said intermediate axis.    3. a bicycle according to claim 2 and characterised by a connecting member and handle-bars connected thereto, the connecting   member    being pivoted to one end of the frame member, the other end of the frame member being pivoted to the rear assembly, wherein the front wheel is rotatable from the normal, riding position to a position in which it is substantially parallel to and adjacent said frame member and the frame member is then pivotable so that the front wheel is moved to be substantially parallel   ts    and adjacent the rear wheel.    4. a bicycle according to claim 2 characterised in that a retaining member is provided between the frame member and the connecting member such that the connecting member may be stably retained in one of only two positions relative to the frame member.      5    a bicycle according to claim 2 characterised in that the pivoting together of the frame member and the rear assembly is such as to allow or to cause the wheels to be laterally offset during the folding up sequence whereby in the folded condition they can lie side-by-side.      6. a bicycle according to claim 2 and characterised by a seat and a support for the seat mounted on the rear assembly, the support being arcuate and pivoted to the rear assembly so that in the folded condition it will lie around part of the peripheries of the wheels.    7. a bicycle according to claim 2 and characterised by a saddle and a pair of positioning strips for supporting the saddle, the positioning strips being disposed to either side of and slidably adjustably engaging with the rear assembly whereby the height of the saddle may be adjusted.     8. a bicycle according to claim 2 characterised in that the frame member is arcuate and arranged to be concentric with and closely spaced from the periphery of the front wheel when the bicycle is in the folded position.    9. a bicycle according to claim 2 characterised in that each wheel has a mudguard associated therewith, the internal width of each mudguard being greater than twice the width of a wheel, each wheel being mounted in its associated mudguard displaced from the symmetry plane within that mudguard such that upon folding, both wheels are within both mudguard.    10. a bicycle according to claim 2 and characterised by a pedal spindle aligned with the pivoting axis of the frame member and rear assembly.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
