<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0003063
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19790725
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
E02D-7/00 E02D-7/20 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
method and device for inserting a pile into the ground
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
ballast nedam groep nvnl<sep>ballast-nedam groep n.v.<sep>ballast-nedam groep n.v.laan van kronenburg 2nl-1180 be amstelveennl <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
den ouden hendriknl   <sep>wolters tjako aaldriknl<sep>den ouden, hendrik<sep>wolters, tjako aaldrik<sep>den ouden, hendrikter veenlaan 60nl-2131 wr hoofddorpnl<sep>wolters, tjako aaldriksanatoriumlaan 4nl-3705 ap zeistnl<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
for inserting a prefabricated pile into the ground, in which a shaft is formed in the ground by introducing a steel sheath into the ground, the ground beneath the pile is consolidated by pressing the pile down whilst bearing on the sheath to be held in the ground. 
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
method and device for inserting a pile into the ground the invention relates to a method of inserting a prefabricated pile into the ground, in which a shaft is formed in the ground by introducing a steel sheath into the ground, the prefabricated pile is slipped into the sheath and the sheath is removed from the shaft whilst leaving the pile in the ground. such a method is known. in the known method there is a risk that after the removal of the sheath the pile may subsequently sink too deeply into the ground due to lack of ground resistance. the invention has for its object to improve the support of the pile, whilst by means of a comparatively light and readily maniable device the pile can be rapidly inserted into the ground without the risk of destruction of the pile. in a method according to the invention the ground beneath the pile is consolidated by pressing down the pile, which sets off from the sheath to be held in the ground, the sheath being removed from the ground not until has the consolidation been achieved. the invention furthermore relates to and improves a device for inserting a prefabricated pile into the ground by using the method in accordance with the invention, said device comprising a tubular sheath and a displaceable guide frame having driving means for introducing the sheath into the ground. this device is characterized by setting-off means to be arranged between the pile and the sheath and by means for energizing said setting-off means in order to press down the pile during consolidation of the ground by setting off the pile against the sheath to be held in the ground and by means separated from the setting-off means for withdrawing the sheath from the ground. the invention provides furthermore a pile inserted into the ground by the method according to the invention, said pile being characterized in that the pile is fixed in place with respect to the pile foot without the interposition of concrete locally shed in shaft by means of undeformable, interengaging contact surfaces between the pile foot and the pile. the above-mentioned and further features of the invention will be explained in the following description with reference to drawings. the drawings show schematically in figures 1, 6, 10, 11 and 12 longitudinal sectional views of a sheath with a pile during the consolidation of the ground located beneath the pile, figures 3, 4, 5 and 8 longitudinal sectional views of the lower end of the sheath during the introduction thereof into the ground, figures 2, 7 and 9 longitudinal sectional views of the lower end of a pile inserted into the ground by using the method shown in figures 1, 6 and 8 respectively, figure 13 a plan view of a site during the insertion of piles into the ground, figure 14 on an enlarged scale a detail xiv of figure 13, figure 15 a control-system for the device illustrated in figure 14, figure
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims    1. a method of inserting a prefabricated pile into the ground, in which a shaft is formed in the ground by introducing a steel sheath into the ground, the prefabricated pile is slipped into the sheath and the sheath is removed from the shaft whilst leaving the pile in the ground, characterized in that the ground beneath the pile is consolidated by pressing down the pile, which sets off from the sheath to be   held    in the ground and in that not until has the consolidation been achieved the sheath is removed from the ground.    2. a method as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that during the consolidation of the ground, whilst the pile is setting off against the sheath, said sheath is loaded by weight.    3. a method as claimed in claim 1 or 2, characterized in that during the consolidation of the ground the pile is compressed, whilst its top end is setting off against the sheath screwed into the ground, up to a predetermined extent,    at which setting off against the sheath is abruptly  eliminated.    4. a method as claimed in claim 1, 2 or 3,  characterized in that the pile foot is connected---by means of  an interruptible joint with the sheath and is introduced si    multaneously    with the sheath into the ground and in that the  ground beneath the pile is consolidated by breaking said in  terruptible joint not until has the pile setting -off against  the sheath been compressed to a predetermined extent.    5. a method as claimed in claim 1 or 2, character  ized in =hat during the consolidation of the ground the pile  is set   ozf    from the sheath by pressing means producing a  short pressure shock.    6. a method as claimed in anyone of the preceding  claims,   ¯haracterized    in that the sheath is screwed into the  ground.    7. a method as claimed in anyone of the preceding claims, characterized in that the pile with a pile foot rigidly connected herewith is inserted into the sheath above the   ground    surface and in that the sheath together with the pile   hel    therein is introduced into the ground.    8. a method as claimed in claim 7, characterized in that the pile is inserted into the sheath held in a recumbent position,  9. a methods as claimed in anyone of claims 1 to 6,   charactezized    in that with respect to the pile foot the pile is fixed in place without the interposition of concrete locally shed in the sheath by means of undeformable, interengaging contact surfaces between the pile foot and the pile.    10. a method as claimed in anyone of the preceding claims,   -haracterized in    that the sheath is screwed into the ground   kev    a substantially continuously advancing movement.    11. a device for inserting a prefabricated pile into the ground by using a method as claimed in anyone of the preceding claims, said device comprising a tubular sheath   ard    a   displatzeable    guide frame having driving means for intro   ducing      trne    sheath into the ground, characterized by   setting    off   means    to be arranged between the pile and the sheath   anc     by means for energizing said setting-off means in order to press down the pile during consolidation of the ground by setting off the pile against the sheath to be held in the ground and by means separated from the setting-off means for withdrawing the sheath from the ground.       12.    a device as claimed in claim 11, characterized by a pile inserting device for slipping a pile into a sheath being in a recumbent position.    13. a device as claimed in claim 11 or 12, characterized by driving means which drive the sheath in a continuously advancing movement.    14. a pile inserted into the ground by the method claimed in claim 9, characterized in that the pile is fixed in place with respect to the pile foot without the interposition of concrete locally shed in shaft by means of undeformable, interengaging contact surfaces between the pile foot and the pile.    15. a pile characterized by a pile foot with coupling means for a disengageable linkage to a sheath.    16. a pile as claimed in claim 15, characterized in that the coupling includes a connection which can be broken at a predetermined load.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
