<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0007777
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800206
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
A23C-9/12 A47J-41/00 B65D-81/38 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
incubating jacket and method of making cultured dairy foods
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
goetting thomas j<sep>goetting, thomas j.<sep>goetting, thomas j.75, daggett streetnew haven, connecticut 06519us<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
goetting thomas j<sep>goetting, thomas j.<sep>goetting, thomas j.75, daggett streetnew haven, connecticut 06519us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
an incubating jacket is shown and described for cultures that incubate between about 40 deg f (4. 4 deg c) and about 125 deg f (51. 6 deg c).  the incubating jacket is comprised of two shells of foam material, which shells are adapted to be fitted about common glass containers or other containers made from other non-heat-conductive materials.  when the shells are fitted about such a container, the jacket will completely encase the container.  the shells also each have a hard, plastic-like skin, which is preformed and wherein a foam-forming liquid resin is cured into the desired shape.  methods of incubating various cultures, such as yoghurt cultures, using such jacket are also described. 
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
incubating jacket and method for making cultured dairy foods disclosure this invention pertains to an insulating jacket for containers made of glass or other non-heat-conductive materials which permit a constant and predetermined exchange of heat energy between the contents of the container enclosed by the insulating jacket and the environment in which such jacketed container is placed. more particularly, this invention relates to incubating jackets for the incubation of yoghurt culture in a hot, milk-containing fluid, wherein the mixture of culture and milk-containing fluid at elevated temperature is contained in a glass or other non-heat-conductive container about which the incubating ;iacket is fittd, a meted nf making such an incubating jacket is also described. the incubating jacket of the present invention is also useful for the incubation of other types of cultures in similar environments. the incubating jacket can also be adapted to maintain for extended periods of time the coolness of fluids in containers within the jacket, such as wine contained within a bottle enclosed by the incubating jacket. brief summary of the drawing fig. 1a is a vertical, sectional view of the incubating jacket showing the constituent parts. fig. 1b is a perspective view of the incubating jacket. fig. 2 is a flowsheet showing the steps involved in a method of making an incubating jacket as disclosed in the present invention. background yoghurt is a fermented, slightly acidic semi-fluid milk food made from milk to which cultures of bacteria have been added and allowed to incubate or develop. such bacteria are lactobacillus acidophilus, lactobacillus bulgaris and streptococcus thermophilus, which are commonly referred to as yoghurt culture. yoghurt is commonly made by mixing yoghurt culture with milk that has been heated to a temperature of about 1800f to about 200 f, or scalded, and then allowed to cool to a temperature of about 1100f to about 1450f, and allowing such mixture to cool gradually over a period of about 3 hours to about 10 hours whereby the mixture remains at a temperature of between 90 f to about 120 f for a period of at least about 3 hours. the yoghurt culture within the hot milk environment employs the milk sugar, lactose, in its development. the culture converts the lactose to lactic acid, which lactic acid thickens the mixture to a custard-like consistency. as the culture incubates, it converts lactose to lactic acid, and gradually by using up the milk sugar, lactose, converts the milk to the more tart yoghurt. the tartness of a yoghurt product, accordingly, can be controlled by stopping the incubation of yoghurt culture within the hot milk environment, allowing an amount of milk sugar to remain in the yoghurt product. the scalding of the milk prior to the addition of the yoghurt culture kills all other bacteria present within the milk and allows the yoghurt culture to develop or incubate without impairment or competition for use of the lactose present. other types of cultured dairy foods, such as sour cream, kefir, creme fraiche, buttermilk, cottage
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims    1. an incubating jacket for cultures that incubate between about   400f    and about   125of    characterised in that it comprises two shells of foam material having an external skin of hard, plastic-like material, the shells being adapted to be closed about a container so as to completely surround the container.    2. an incubating jacket as set forth in claim 1 characterised in that the two shells are of resin foam material.    3. an incubating jacket as set forth in claim 1 characterised in that the two shells are substantially of the same size and shape.    4. an incubating jacket as set forth in claim 1 characterised in that the external skin of the two shells is made of high impact resin material.    5. an incubating jacket as set forth in claim 1 and further characterised in that it comprises an internal skin of hard, plastic-like material for each of the two shells of foam material so as to sandwich and completely encase the foam material of said shells between the hard, plastic-like material of said outer skin and the hard, plastic-like material of the internal skin.    6. an incubating jacket as set forth in claim 5 characterised in that the internal skin of the two shells is made of high impact resin material.    7. a method of preparing sweet yoghurt without the addition of heating energy during incubation of yoghurt culture characterised in that it comprises:    a. heating milk to a temperature  between 1800f to about   2000f    or to  scalding;  b. cooling said scalded milk to a  temperature of about   115of    to about    125 f;     c. adding yoghurt culture to said  cooled milk in said temperature  range in an amount sufficient to develop  said milk;  d. mixing said milk and yoghurt culture;  e. placing the resulting mixture of  milk and yoghurt culture while in said  temperature range within a receptacle  having thermal properties that allow the  mixture to decline in temperature from  said temperature   range    to approximately    90 f    at the end of about 8 to about 10  hours;  and  f. incubating said mixture in said  receptacle for a time not less than  about 3 to about 4 hours and not more than  about 8 to about 10 hours.    8. a method of preparing sweet yoghurt as set forth in claim 7 characterised in that the receptacle provides for uniform heat loss throughout its defining surfaces.    9. an incubating jacket for cultures that incubate between about   400f    and about   125of    characterised in that it comprises two shells of polyurethane foam material having an external skin of hard, plastic-like material,  which external skin's surface immediately adjacent polyurethane foam material is highly polished so as to be heat reflective, the shells being adapted to be closed about a container so as to completely surround such container with at least about one inch of polyurethane foam material and to nest with respect to one another at said shell's lips.    10. an incubating jacket as set forth in claim 9 characterised in that the two shells are cup-shaped.    11. an incubating jacket as set forth in claim 9 characterised in that the two shells are substantially of the same size and shape.    12. an incubating jacket as set forth in claim 9 characterised in that the external skin of the two shells is made of high impact polystyrene, approximately .05 inches thick.    13. an incubating jacket as set forth in claim 9 further characterised in that it comprises an internal skin of hard, plastic-like material for each of the two shells of polyurethane foam material so as to sandwich and completely encase the polyurethane foam material of said shells between the hard, plastic-like material of said outer skin and the hard, plastic-like material of the internal skin.      14.    an incubating jacket as set forth in claim 13 characterised in that the internal skin of the two shells is made of high impact polystyrene, approximately .05 inches thick.     15. a method of producing an incubating jacket characterised in that it comprises:  a. forming a cup-shaped skin og high-impact resin; b. drilling a small hole into the base of said skin; c. tipping said skin to receive a liquid; d. introducing foam-forming resin liquid into said skin; e. introducing into said liquid-filled skin a core mold so as to seal said skin, the core mold being detachable affixed to the skin; f. sloshing the liquid in said sealed skin so as to evenly distribute the foam-forming resin liquid in said skin; g. inverting the skin so as to place the base having the small hole in an upwards position; h. curing the foam-forming resin liquid; and i. detaching the core mold from the skin.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
