<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0007776
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800206
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B29C-45/84 B21D-28/00 B21J-15/10 B21J-15/22 B21J-15/28 F16P-3/00 B21J-15/00 B30B-15/28 F16P-3/04 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
press for installing fasteners in workpieces.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
ocean investments ltdgb<sep>ocean investments (gibraltar) limited<sep>ocean investments (gibraltar) limited3, bell lanegibraltargb<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
tarbuck grahamgb<sep>tarbuck, graham<sep>tarbuck, graham28 wootton roadfinchfield, wolverhampton west midlandsgb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a machine such as an injection moulding machine or a  press for installing fasteners into workpieces has a ram (10)  coupled to a hydraulic piston and cylinder (16) via a toggle  linkage (22,24) which is movable by a pneumatically control­ led piston and cylinder (14) between a folded condition and a  substantially collinear condition.  such movement of the tog­ gle (22,24) advances or retracts the ram (10) towards or away  from an anvil (18).  the toggle (22,24) can transmit force from  the cylinder (16) to the ram (10) only when the toggle (22,24) is  in the collinear condition and hence when the ram (10) is in  close proximity or contact with the anvil (18).  in this way, the  operators hands are safeguarded without the need for the  provision of a machine guard.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
description press for installing fasten@rs in workpidces this invention relates to machines of the kind which comprise a first working member mounted on the mactline for movement towards and away from a second workng member, the frst member being movable axially fran a remote position to a position i.n which it is in close proximity or contact with said second member, and force applying means operable when texe first member is in close proximity or contact with said stcond member to apply a large force to said first working rember, which force acts axially in a direction towards said second merttjer. the invention is applicable to various machines of this kind, for example injection naulding machines, but is especially applicable to presses for installing fasteners in workpieces, e.g. for inserting self-piercing and self-clinching rivets into an assembly of netal sheets as described in our prior british patent no.147146(, to wtich reference should be made for further details. such presses generally comprise a ram which executes a working stroke while the workpteoe is support@i ty an anvil. in over to pennit adequate access to the installation zone of the pres to enable ttle operator to locate t workptece in lesitiorl, that ram must have a fairly long stroke between its fully retracted and fully extended positions. this gives rise to the problem of safeguarding the operators hinds. one solution is to provide a press guard which must be in position before the operator can initiate the working stroke of the ram but such an arrangement tends to recluce the installation speed because the guard must he repeatedly withdrawn and replaced. another solution involves designing the press so that the ram is of two-part construction cmprising a hollow shaft to which a pneumatically-displaceable piston is secured and a rod received within the hollow shaft and displaccable therewith under the action of the pneumatic cylinder and piston. the hollow shaft forms a hydraulic cylinder accommodating a piston carried bythe rod and the pneumatic and hydraulic piston and cylinders dre actuated sequentially so that initially the shaft and rod are advanced by the pneumatic piston and cylinder frorn a retracted workpiece loading position to a fastener installing position and, opon reaching the latter position, the rod is advance further by the hydraulic piston and cylinder to execute te installation stroke. thus, with this arrangement the first stage of the ram travel is under pneumatic pressure and the pressure is design & i so that it is insufficient to cause injury to the operator's hands or to drainage an incoreectly located fastener. the second stage can only be initiated when the shaft/rod assembly has cmpleted the first stage and at this point the gap between the shaft/rod and the anvil or workpiece is designed to be small enough to preclude the possibility of the operators hand or fingers beckoning trapped. the second stage can therefore be execute3 under relatively large hydraulic pressure. this latter solution overcomes tlle drawbacks associated with press guards but is a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims   1. a machine cmprising a first working member mounted on the machine for novement towards and away   frown    a second working member, the first member being movable axially fran a   rexlote    position to a position in which it is in close proximity or contact with said second   member,    and   force-aitlying      means      operable    when the first member is in close proximity or contact with said second member to apply a large force to said first working   member,    which force acts axially in a direction towards said second member,  characterised in that the force-applying means is cnnected to said first   member    via a   toggle    linkage whose links are movable front a folded condition to a predetermined substantially collinear condition such that the first member advances towards or retracts from said second member in response to straightening or   folding    respectively of said links, and in that neans is provided for maintaining said linkage in said prodetermined condition to allow transmission of force from said   force-applying    means to said first   meinber    but only when said   linkage    is in said   predetermined    condition.   2. a machine as claimed in   claim@l    including low force-applying means for   moving    said toggle linkage   between    the aforesaid conditions to advance or retract said first member, such means acting on the toggle linkage with a   force    of cnsiderably smaller magnitude than that exerted by said large force-applying   neans.        3. a machine as   claimed    in claim 1 or 2 including means for sensing   movement    of the   toggle    linkage into said predetermined condition and preventing   tjeration    of said large force-applying means until the linkage is in said   ±redeternined    condition.   4. a machine as claimed in claim 1, 2 or 3 in which said predetermined condition corresponds to the toggle linkage being in an overcentre but substantially   collinear    condition in which   the    pivotal connection between the links co-operate with an abutment surface which allows the pivotal connection to slide axially.   5. a machine for installing fasteners in   workpieces      comprising    an anvil for location of a workpiece, a ram displaceable towards the anvil to effect a forward stroke, low force means for displacing the ram over a first part of its forward stroke and large force means for displacing the ram over the retaining part of its forward stroke,  characterised in that the large force means is connected to the ram via a toggle linkage which translates operation of the low force   means    into displacement of the ram over said first part of its forward stroke until the   linkage    occupies a predetermined position in which it is constrained against hinging to enable it to transmit force from the large force   gleans    to   tulle      rain    whereby the remainder of said forward stroke can be   cuitipleted    under   the    influence of said large force   means    acting through the toggle linkage.   6. a machine as claimed in   claim    5 in which the toggle linkage comprises a pair of pivotally connected links   which    are further pivoted to the large force means   and    the   rill      respectively    and the low pressure   means    is connected to one of said links at a separate point   adjacent      us      pivolal    consection between   tlle      links,    the arrangement being such that, when the low pressure   means    s retracted, the links are in an acute angled relation and, when the low pressure means is extended,   the    links are in an overcentre,  almost   colinear    relation and co-operate with an abutment surface which maintains them in such relation until tile low pressure means is retracted.     7. a machine as claimed in   claim    4 or 6 in which the links carry at least one roller element which is   arranged    to bear against said abutment surface when the links are in the overcentre relation thereby reducing frictional resistance   when    the links are   displaced    longitudinally by   the    large force means.   8. a machine as claimed in any one of claims 2, 5, 6 and 7 in which the low force means   comprises    a spring-loaded element acting on the toggle linkage to bias the sane towards the overcentre position and a pneumatic cylinder arranged to hold the   spring-loaded    element retracted so that the   toggle    linkaye is unable to transmit force from the large force means to the ram or first member, user-operable means being provided to disable said cylinder to allow extension of the piston rod   thereof    to take the   toggle      linkage    overcente and advance the ram over the first part of   the    forward stroke.    9. a machine as claimed   in      claitit    5,6,7 or   il    including means   for sensing movement of the toggle 1 linkage to said predetermined    position and   autaitatically    actuating   the    large force-applying means.   10. a machine as claimed in any one of the preceding claims in which the large-force applying means comprises a hydraulic cylinder whose axis is coaxial wittl the   path    of movement of   t}se      ran    or first working   mernber.     
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
