<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0007497
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800206
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
G05D-23/275 F24F-11/02 F24D-11/02 F24D-11/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
air conditioning system and method for heating and cooling an enclosure.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
carrier corpus<sep>carrier corporation<sep>carrier corporationcarrier tower 6304 carrier parkway p.o. box 4800syracuse new york 13221us<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
eisberg keith vus<sep>eisberg, keith v.<sep>eisberg, keith v.1095 observatory roadmartinsville, indianaus<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
an air conditioning system including a furnace (14) and a  heat pump (18) selectively operable to provide relatively  warm air to an enclosure.  an indoor thermostat (46) having  first and second threshold temperature settings senses the  temperature of the air in the enclosure.  a control coordinates  the operation of the heat pump (18) and furnace (14) in  response to the sensed temperature of the air in the enclos足 ure.  the control is operable in a first state to selectively acti足 vate the heat pump (18) whenever the first threshold tempera足 ture exceeds the sensed temperature and is operable in a  second state to solely activate the furnace (14) whenever the  second threshold temperature exceeds the sensed tempera足 ture.  whenever the furnace (14) is activated, the furnace (14) is  maintained active and the heat pump inactive until the sensed  temperature exceeds the first threshold temperature.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
air conditioning system and hethod for heating and cooling an enclosure the present invention relates to an air conditioning system for providing relatively warm and cool conditioned air to an enclosure, and in particular to a system including a furnace and a heat pump that are coordinately operated to heat the enclosure to maintain desired temperture level therein. the need to conserve fossil fuels is a self-evident fact of modern life. one of the prime users of fossil fuels is the generation of heat for homes, office buildings and other inhabited places. the heating fuel requirement for such buildings represents a major percentage of all fossil fuel utilization. one of the most prominent alternatives to coventional furnaces employing fossil fuels is the heat pump. as is well recognized in the art, a heat pump extracts heat from the ambient and transfers such heat to an occupied space via a refrigeration unit operating in a reverse cycle. however, although a heat pump is more efficient than conventional fossil fuels employed in traditional heating systems when ambient temperatures are relatively high, the relative difference in efficiency between the heat pump and conventional systems decreases as the ambient temperature falls. depending upon the cost of conventional fossil fuels, the "break even" point, that is the ambient temperature at which the use of the heat pump becomes less efficient or more costly than the use of a conventional fossil fuel burning apparatus varies from one geographical region to another. very often the "break even" point is less than the "balance point", that is the ambient temperature at which the heat pump can just maintain the desired temperature in the occupied spaces. thus, to obtain maximum efficiency from a heat pump, operating in a region whereat the balance point is higher than the "break even" point, the heat pump should continue to run, even though the occupied space temperature will continue to decrease when the ambient temperature is less than the balance point but higher than the "break even" point. the heat pump can be deactivated and an auxiliary heat source, such as a natural gas or propane gas furnace, can be activated when the temperature in the space falls below a predetermined level. various arrangements have been proposed for coordinating the operation of furnaces and heat pumps in a common heating system to provide optimum efficient use of each of the heating elements. for example, it has been proposed to provide a control system to coordinate the operation of the heat pump and the furnace, with the heat pump being solely operable at a first indoor temperature level and the furnace being solely operable at a second indoor temperature level. although the described system attempts to provide an extremely efficient system, the system fails to recognize that a heat pump loses efficiency when it is cycled numerous times. the heat pump disclosed in the cited patents cycles on and off to provide first stage heating, with the furnace providing second stage heating. due to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:   1. a system for conditioning the air in an enclosure including furnace means for delivering relatively warm conditioned air to said enclosure; heat pump means for selectively delivering relatively warm or relatively cool conditioned air to said enclosure, and including an indoor coil, an outdoor coil, and compressor means; indoor ther   static    means having first and second threshold temperature settings for sensing the temperature of the air in the enclosure characterized   by.      control means (62, 64, 69, 66, 76, 80, 84, 86) for coordinating the operation of said heat pump means (18) and said furnace means (14) in response to the air temperature sensed by said indoor thermostatic means (46), said control means being operable in a first stage (48) whenever said first threshold temperature setting exceeds said indoor temperature and in a second stage (50) whenever said second threshold temperature exceeds said indoor temperature, said control means (76, 84) solely activating said heat pump means (18) in said first stage to deliver relatively warm air to said enclosure, and solely activating (62, 64, 66, 69, 80, 86) said furnace means (14) in said second stage to deliver relatively warm air to said enclosure, said control means (64, 66,  69) in said second stage maintaining said furnace means (14) active and said heat pump means (18) inactive until said indoor temperature exceeds said first threshold (48) temperature.   2. a system in accordance with claim 1 characterized further by including outdoor thermostatic means (72) to sense the temperature of said ambient and to render said heat pump means (18j inoperable irrespective of the sensed temperature of the air in the enclosure when the temperature of said ambient decreases below a predetermined threshold  setting, said control means (75, 80) solely activating said furnace means in said first and second states.   3. a system in accordance with claim 2, characterized in that said outdoor thermostatic means (72) is manually adjustable for permitting the changing of said predetermined threshold setting thereof.   4. a system in accordance with claims 1 or 3, characterized in that said control means includes first relay means (64); and a holding circuit (62, 66, 69) activated by said relay means (64) to maintain said furnace means (14) active and said heat pump means (18) inactive as the temperature of the air in the enclosure increases from below said second threshold setting to above said first threshold setting.   5. a method of conditioning the air in an enclosure characterized by the steps of activating (46, 76, 84) a heat pump (18) to supply relatively warm air to the enclosure when the air temperature therein decreases below a first predetermined level; activating (50, 64, 80, 86) a furnace (14) while deactivating (69) the heat pump (18) to supply relatively warm air to the enclosure when the air temperature therein decreases below a second predetermined level; and maintaining (62, 66) the furnace (14) active and the heat pump (18) inactive until the temperature of the air in the enclosure has increased above said first predetermined level.    6. a method in accordance with claim 5 characterized further by including the steps of sensing (72) the temperature of the outdoor air; and only activating (75, 80, 86) the furnace when the temperature of the air in the enclosure decreases below the first predetermined level when the sensed outdoor air temperature decreases below a predetermined level.     7. a method in accordance with claim 6 characterized further by including the step of varying the predetermined level of the sensed outdoor air temperature.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
