<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0012615
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800625
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
F01C-21/00 F01C-21/10 F04C-18/02 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
improvements in scroll type fluid compressor units.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
sankyo electric cojp <sep>sankyo electric company limited <sep>sankyo electric company limited 20 kotobuki-choisesaki-shi, gunma-kenjp<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
fukusima eizijp<sep>terauchi kiyoshijp<sep>fukusima, eizi<sep>terauchi, kiyoshi<sep>fukusima, eizi1755, haranogou, fuzimi-muraseta-gun, gunma-kenjp<sep>terauchi, kiyoshi8-14 heiwa-choisesaki-shi, gunma-kenjp<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a scroll type fluid compressor unit wherein, to lighten the  unit, orbiting and fixed scroll members are mado of alumini­ um or aluminium alloy.  at least one of the scroll members (24)  is subjected to surface hardening (35) by copper plating, hard  chromium plating or anodic oxidation to reduce wear due to  sliding contact between the scroll members.  the sealing of  fluid pockets between the scroll members is thus maintained  during long use of the compressor unit.  a surface hardening  coating may be applied to one of scroll members and the oth­ er scroll member may be coated by a polytetrafluoroethylene  coating.  in this arrangement, the sliding friction between  both scroll members is further reduced.  in order to avoid a surface hardening treatment, at least  one of scroll members may be made of anti-wearing alumini­ um alloy which includes, by weight, 12-25% si.  the scroll  member made of such an anti-wearing aluminium alloy is ma­ chined to obtain a desired dimensional accuracy and the ma­ chined surface, owing to the exposure of many silicon crys­ tals, has a surface anti-wearing property.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
this invention relates to scroll type fluid compressor units. a scroll type apparatus has been well known in the prior art as disclosed in, for example, u.s. patent no. 801,182, and others, which comprises two scroll members each having an end plate and a spiroidal or involute spiral element. these scroll members are so maintained angularly and radially offset that their spiral elements interfit to make a plurality of line contacts between their spiral curved surfaces, thereby to seal off and define at least one fluid pocket. the relative orbital motion of these scroll members shifts the line contacts along the spiral curved surfaces and, therefore, the volume of the fluid pocket increases or decreases in dependence on the direction of the orbital motion. therefore, a scroll type apparatus is suitable for handling fluids or for compressing, expanding or pumping them. in comparison with conventional compressors of a piston type, a scroll type compressor has some advantages such as less number of parts, continuous compression of fluid and others. but, there have been several problems; primarily sealing of the fluid pocket, wearing of the spiral elements, and inlet and outlet porting. although there have been many patents, for example, u.s. patents nos. 3,884,599, 3,924,977, 3,994,633, 3,994,635, and 3,994,636 in order to resolve these and other problems, the resultant compressor is complicated in construction and in production. specifically, the problems of wearing of the scroll members and of friction between the scroll members are not resolved sufficiently. since a compressor of this type is compact and relatively light, it is advantageously used for a refrigerant compressor of an air conditioning system for an automobile. in such applications, since the compressor is desirably light, the scroll members and other parts can be made of aluminium or aluminium alloy. if the scroll members are made of aluminium or an aluminium alloy, the sealing of the fluid pockets becomes insufficient owing to wearing. according to the present invention there is provided a scroll type fluid compressor unit including a compressor housing having a fluid inlet port and a fluid outlet port, a fixed scroll member fixedly disposed within said compressor housing and having first end plate means to which first wrap means are affixed, and an orbiting scroll member orbitally disposed within said compressor housing and having second end plate means to which second wrap means are affixed, said first and second wrap means interfitting, being at a predetermined angular relationship, and having a plurality of line contacts so as to define at least one sealed off fluid pocket which moves with reduction in volume thereof upon orbital motion of said orbiting scroll member, thereby to compress the fluid in the pocket, wherein said fixed and orbiting scroll members are each formed of aluminium or an aluminium alloy, and at least one of the fixed and orbiting members has at least the surface of its wrap means and the end surface of its end plate means on which said wrap means are affixed formed
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:    1. a scroll type fluid compressor unit including a compressor housing having a fluid inlet port and a fluid outlet port, a fixed scroll member fixedly disposed within said compressor housing and having first end plate means to which first wrap means are affixed, and an orbiting scroll member orbitally disposed within said compressor housing and having second end plate means to which second wrap means are affixed, said first and second wrap means interfitting being at a predetermined angular relationship, and having a plurality of line contacts so as to define at least one sealed off fluid pocket which moves with a reduction in volume thereof upon orbital motion of said orbiting scroll member, thereby to compress the fluid in the pocket, wherein said fixed and orbiting scroll members are each formed of aluminium or an aluminium alloy,  and at least one of the fixed and orbiting members has at least the surface of its wrap means and the end surface of its end plate means on which said wrap means are affixed formed of a material having anti-wearing properties.    2. a scroll type fluid compressor unit   includingha    compressor housing having a fluid inlet port and a fluid outlet port, a fixed scroll member fixedly disposed within said compressor housing and having first end plate means to which first wrap means are affixed, and an orbiting scroll member orbitally disposed within said compressor housing and having  second end plate means to which second wrap means are affixed, said first and second wrap means interfitting at a predetermined angular relationship to make a plurality of line contacts to define at least one sealed off fluid pocket which moves with reduction of volume thereof by the orbital motion of said orbiting scroll member, thereby to compress the fluid in the pocket, wherein said fixed and orbiting scroll members are each formed of aluminium or an aluminium alloy,  and at least one of said fixed and orbiting scroll members has the surface of its wrap means and the end surface of its end plate means on which said wrap means are affixed surface hardened.    3. a unit as claimed in claim 2, wherein said surfaces have been surface hardened by copper plating.    4. a unit as claimed in claim 2, wherein said surfaces have been surface hardened by anodic oxidation coating.    5. a unit as claimed in claim 2, wherein said surfaces have been surface hardened by hard chromium plating.    6. a scroll type fluid compressor unit including a compressor housing having a fluid inlet port and a fluid outlet port, a fixed scroll member fixedly disposed within said compressor housing and having first end plate means to which first wrap means are affixed, and an orbiting scroll member orbitally disposed within said compressor housing and having second end plate means to which second wrap means are affixed, said first and secondwrap means interfitting, being at a predetermined angular relationship  and having a plurality of line contacts so as to define at least one sealed off fluid pocket which moves with a reduction in volume thereof upon orbital motion of said orbiting scroll member, thereby to compress the fluid in the pocket, wherein said fixed and orbiting scroll members are formed of an aluminium alloy,  and at least one of said fixed and orbiting scroll members is formed of a high silicon aluminium alloy.    7. a scroll type fluid compressor unit including a compressor housing having a fluid inlet port and a fluid outlet port, a fixed scroll member fixedly disposed within said compressor housing and having first end plate means to which first wrap means are affixed, and an orbiting scroll member orbitally disposed within said compressor housing and having second end plate means to which second wrap means are affixed, said first and second wrap means interfitting, being at a predetermined angular relationship, and having a plurality of line contacts so as to define at least one sealed off fluid pocket which moves with a reduction in volume thereof upon orbital motion of said orbiting scroll member, thereby to compress the fluid in the pocket, wherein said fixed and orbiting scroll members are   foxed    of aluminium alloy,   one of said fixed and orbiting scroll members has the surface of its wrap means and the end surface of its end plate on which said wrap means is affixed surface hardened, and the other of said scroll members has a polytetrafluoroethylene coating on the surface of its wrap means and the  end surface of its end plate on which said wrap means are affixed.    8. a unit as claimed in claim 7, wherein said surfaces have been hardened by copper plating.    9. a unit as claimed in claim 7, wherein said surfaces have been hardened by anodic oxidation coating.    10. a unit as claimed in claim 7, wherein said surfaces have been hardened by hard chromium plating.    11. a unit as claimed in claim 6, wherein the other of said scroll members has a polytetrafluoroethylene coating on the surface of its wrap means and the end surface of its end plate on which said wrap means are affixed.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
