<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0007196
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800123
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
D01D-4/06 B29C-47/68 B29L-7/00 B29C-47/58 B01D-29/11 D01D-1/10 D01D-4/00 D01D-1/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
filter means for high viscosity liquids and process for the filtration of molten polymers employing such filter means.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
fiber industries incus<sep>fiber industries, inc.<sep>fiber industries, inc.post office box 10038 charlotte north carolina 28201us<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
russell luther o jnr us<sep>russell, luther o., jnr.<sep>russell, luther o., jnr.3311 deerwood drivegastonia, north carolinaus<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
filter means for high viscosity liquids involving a  replaceable filtration unit generally of the self-sealing semi­ disposable type) having a screen (6) to support inert granular  material (16) within a housing (9), wherein an improvement  comprises the screen's rim being swaged into the housing (9),  preferably with an interference fit within the range of 0. 125 to  0. 4 mm.  the filter means of this invention are especially appl­ icable to the extrusion of molten polymers into shaped arti­ cles, and accordingly the invention provides a process for  such use.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
"filter means for high viscosity liquids and process for the filtration of molten polymers employing such filter means." the invention relates to filter means for high viscosity liquids involving a replaceable filtration unit or pack and to a process for the filtration of molten polymers employing such filter means. such molten polymers have high viscosity and are forced through the filter means under pressure, generally so as to be extruded into shaped articles such as filaments and films. packs for filtering pressurized high viscosity polymeric material and forming the filter liquid into spun filaments are well knovnin the art. a pack of relatively recent design and its mode of operation is disclosed in u.s. patent 3 307 216. typically, all such packs are assembled from a mixture of re-useable components (such as housing, lid, spinnerette and disposable components (such as inert granular material, gaskets, and screens for supporting the inert granular material). the average time interval between replacing packs has a significant effect on both the economics of the process and the quality of the product. the invention arose out of the discovery that the type of pack disclosed in the fore-mentioned u.s. patent 3 307 216 had certain drawbacks, particularly for the spinning of highly viscous material at high throughputs. in particular, it was found that some of the seals for controllinrj polymer flow #.'ffi':- not consistently effective, resulting in both exte polymer leaks out of the pack, and internal polymer leaks (or by-passing) within the pack. both types of leak are highly undesirable. the present invention, in which the rim ot the screen supporting the inert granular material is sac into the housing, has been found to reduce signific'nt. the number of these highly undesirable leaks, has been found in addition to halve the time to assemble the pack components into an integral unit. the improved seal design may be used with advantage in any replaceable filter of the type described regardless of whether the filter is integrally combined with an extrusion die. the improved seal designs are extremely valuable in melt spinning packs designed for use in combination with alread constructed apparatus that imposes severe space limitations. the invention is surprising, particularly since the type of seal shown in u.s. patent 3 307 216 has been used commercially for over ten years in the manufacture of many billions of kilograms of fiber. the invention provides filter means for high viscosi liquids involving a replaceable filtration unit comprising a housing (9) having an inlet port (19) and an exit port (20) and a rimmed screen (6) between the ports for filtering the liquids, characterised in that the screen's rim is swaged into the housing. the invention, in its preferred form, provides filter means for high viscosity liquids involving a replaceable pack comprising a housing (9) having an inlet port (19) and an outlet port (20), a lid (15) having an inlet port (11) being rigidly connected via a first gasket (7) to the housing (9) around the housing'#
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
   cl aims -      1. filter means for high viscosity liquids involving a replaceable filtration unit comprising a housing (9) having an inlet port (19) and an exit port (20) and a rimmed screen   (6)between    the ports for filtering the liquids, characterised in that the screen's   rim    is swaged into the housing.   2. filter means as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that the swaged rim has an interference fit   ;'.ithln    the range of 0.125 to 0.4 mm.   3. filter means as claimed in claim 1 or 2, characterised in that a grooved bridge plate (5) is located downstream of the screen and the screen's rim is swaged into the bridge plate.   4. filter means for high viscosity liquids involving a replaceable pack comprising a housing (9) having an inlet port (19) and an outlet port (20), a lid (15) having an inlet port (11) and being rigidly connected via a first gasket (7) to the housing (9) around the housing's inlet port (19), an extrusion die (2) rigidly connected via a second gasket (3) around the housing's outlet port (20), an internal lip (5) within the housing between the extrusion die (2) and the inlet port (19) of the housing, means for filtering the fluid immediately upstream of the lip, which filtering means comprises inert granular material (16) immediately upstream of a supporting rimmed fine mesh screen (6)   whose    rim contacts the housing's internal lip (5), characterised in that the screen's rim is swaged into the housing,  whereby there is a reduced chance of some of the liquid or granular material by-passing the screen.   5. filter means as claimed in claim 4, characterised in that the swaged rim has an interference fit within the range of 0.125 to 0.4 mm.   6. filter means as claimed in claim 4 or 5, characterised in that the screen is at least partly annular in shape.     7. filter means as claimed in any of claims 4 to 6,   characterised    in that a grooved bridge plate (5) is located downstream of the screen, the screen is in the shape of a top hat, and the screen's rim's inner surface is swaged into the bridge plate.   8. filter means as claimed in any of claims 4 to 7, characterised in that the first gasket is a metal sleeve having a length l, outer diameter d, and wall thickness t; and the housing's inlet port has a square step around the inlet port's inner face, the square step having a radial depth approximately equal to t    l and a height h which is less than l, the value of l  t    being in the range of 2 to 10.   9. filter means as claimed in claim 8, characterised in that the lid has a counter bore of diameter   approxim.l'ely    equal to d and depth d, and the value of the   sulil    of h and d is less than l in the unassembled state and equal to l in,the assembled state.   10. filter means as claimed in claim 8 or 9, characterised   in that lt is in the range of 4 to 7.    t    11. filter means as claimed in any of claims 8 to 10, characterised in that t is in the range of 0.635 to 2.5 mm.    12. filter means as claimed in any of claims 8 to 11, characterised in that the metal sleeve comprises aluminium, copper, mild steel or stainless steel.   13. filter means as claimed in any of claims 4 to 12, characterised in that the housing has a second lip around the housing's outlet port, and the extrusion die is rigidly connectable to the second lip via the second gasket by reason of pressure of the liquid to be filtered.   14. process for the filtration of molten polymers comprising forcing them under pressure through filter means, characterised in that the filter means are as claimed in any of claims 1 to   13.      15. process as claimed in claim 14, characterised in that the filtered polymers are subjected to extrusion into shaped articles.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
