<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0015329
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800917
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
G01V-1/02 G01V-1/155 G01V-1/053 H04R-23/00 <main>G01V-1/155</main> 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
seismic transducer construction.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
conoco inc us  <sep>conoco inc.<sep>conoco inc.1000 south pine street p.o. box 1267ponca city oklahoma 74603us<sep>conoco inc.<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
fair delbert wayne<sep>fair, delbert wayne<sep>fair, delbert wayne2221 east hartfordponsa city, oklahomaus<sep>fair, delbert wayne  <sep>fair, delbert wayne2221 east hartfordponsa city, oklahomaus<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
transducer for inducing waves in an elastic medium,  in particular for the generation and coupling of shear wave  energy into the earth.  the transducer includes:   - a vibrator (10) comprising a single mass member (12)  having a plurality of parallel hydraulic cylinder bores  (14) extending therethrough and in each cylinder a pis­ ton (18) with oppositely extending piston rods (20, 22);   - a vibrator frame (24,26) interconnecting the ends of the  piston rods, which frame includes necessary hydraulic  putting means, a manifold (130) and a servo valve con­ trol structure (132);   - means (84, 86) on the frame for engaging a surface of  the elastic medium (82).  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
the present invention relates generally to transducers for inducing vibrational signals in an elastic medium, and more parti cularly, but not by way of limitation, it relates to an improved construction for a transducer especially suitable for generating seismic shear waves in the earth for the purpose of seismo- graph surveying. then practicing the system of vibrational seisinograpbic exploration disclosed generally in our u.s.a. patent no. 2,688,124-, a seismic signal of controlled frequency must be induced i the earth. the controlled signal then propagates downwardly and is reflected from subterranean interfaces upwardly and recorded as a composite signal having a plurality of the reflected controlled signals at various time phase positions on the record. the composite record is tn correlated with t original transmitted signal to produce highly valuable seismic data. the prior art transducer os general type is shown in u.s.a. patent no. 3,159,233. in general, such a tt;andi3cer is comprised of a mass member having a cylinder bore extending therethrough, a piston member having a piston and oppositely extending rods reciprocally disposed in the cylinder bore, and means for introducing fluid under pressure to the cylinder bore causing reciprocation of the piston member relative to the mass member. these specific types of prior transducers had a particular problem that was inherent in the design; the problem was primarily concerned with the tendency of the mass- member to rotate about the piston. prior art attempts at plural vibrator assemblies is particularly characterized by u.s.a. patent no. 3,777,843 as issued december 11, 1973 in the name of fair et al, and entitled "seismic vibrator system". this system utilized two separate vibrators earth-coupled through a single, unitary base plate in an attempt to better distribute vibrational forces over the whole of the base plate; however, systems such as this proved to be difficult to synchronize and subsequently were relegated to limited usage. the present invention relates to a seismic transducer for generating waves in an elastic medium and is particularly applicable to the generation of low frequency shear waves. the transducer is comprised of a mass member having more than one parallel hydraulic cylinder disposed therein, a piston member disposed in each cylinder, each piston member including a piston and a pair of'oppositely extending rods, and a frame interconnecting the ends of the piston rods, the frame having a base surface thereon for engaging a surface of the elastic median disposed within the piston members and the frame is a series of ports through hich high pressure hydraulic fluid is communicated to the cylinders in such a manner as to cause a simultaneous reciprocation of the piston members relative to the mass member. therefore, it is a general object of the present invention to provide a seismic transducer construction which is particularly applicable to the generation of shear waves. another object is to provide a seismic transducer construction which produces signals of lower frequency and of greater strength than can be produced by previously known shear wave transducers. yet another object
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 chains   1. a transducer for inducing waves in an elastic medium, comprising:  a single mass member having a  plurality of parallel offset  cylinder bores extending  therethrough;  a piston member having a piston  and oppositely extending piston  rods reciprocally disposed in  each cylinder bore and each rod  extends out each side of said  mass;  means for simultaneously introducing  fluid under pressure into each  cylinder bore, alternately on  opposite sides of each piston, and  concurrently on the same sides of  the several pistons, for simultan  eously reciprocating the piston  members in concert, relative to  the mass member; and  a frame interconnecting the ends of  the oppositely. extending piston  rods, the flame having means    thereon    for engaging a surface of  thc elastic medium.   2. a transducer for inducing waves in an elastic medium such as tee earth including a   hydraulic     fluid system having a high pressure side and a low pressure side, said transducer comprising:  a reaction mass member having a  plurality of cylinder bores  extending therethrough;  a piston member having a piston and  oppositely extending piston rods  reciprocally disposed in each of  said cylinder bores;  means disposed within each of said  piston members for introducing  fluid under pressure from said  high pressure side into each of  said cylinder bores alternately  on opposite sides of said pistons  for reciprocating said piston  members relative to said mass  member; and  a frame interconnecting the ends of  the oppositely extending piston  rods, said frame having surface  means thereon for engaging a  surface of the elastic medium.   3. a transducer as claimed in claim 1 or 2 wherein:  the means on the frame for   engaging     the surface of the elastic medium  is disposed generally parallel  with the oppositely extending    pio    rods,    whereby upon reciprocation of the  piston members relative to the  mass member the frame will be  reciprocated by a reaction force  in a direction parallel to the  surface of the elastic medium  to couple shear waves into the  elastic   medium.      4.   h    transducer as claimed in claim 1 or 2 wherein:  the means on the frame for engaging  the surface of the elastic medium  is disposed generally perpendicu  lar to the oppositely extending  piston rods,  whereby upon reciprocation of the  piston members relative to the  mass member the frame will be  reciprocated by a reaction force  in a direction generally normal  to the surface of the elastic  medium to couple compressional  waves into the elastic medium.   5. a transducer as claimed in claim 3 or 4 which further comprises:  a bearing insert disposed within each  end of the cylinder bore to    slndingly    receive one of tbe  piston rods, each of said  bearing inscrts having disposed    within its inner diameter, a  fluid collecting groove to  collect that fluid which flows  between the cylinder bore   and    the  piston rods; and    wherein    the frame is further  characterized as including a base  plate and a first and second end  plate,   between      which is    mounted  said piston member, said first  endplate having disposed therein  a return port means for   communi-     cating the fluid bleed-back means  with the low pressure side of  said hydraulic system.   6. a transducer as claimed in claim 5 further comprising:  a manifold and conventional servovalve  mounted on the frame; and  wherein the frame is further   character-     ized as including a base plate  and a pair of end plates, between  which is mounted the piston member,  one end plate having disposed  therein a pair of ports each of  which communicate with   only of    the  fluid power ports of the piston    member    and also with the manifold,  so that fluid under pressure is  directed by the   serwovalve    through  the manifold, the ports within the    frame and the fluid power ports  in an alternating fashion tc the  opposite sides of the piston for  reciprocating the piston member  relative to the mass member.   7. a transducer for inducing waves in an elastic medium such as the earth, comprising:  a mass member having a plurality of  cylinder bores extending there  through, and having at each end  of each cylinder bore a first and  second counterbore;  a piston member having a piston and  oppositely extending piston rods,  reciprocally disposed in each  cylinder bore with the rods  extending from each end of the  cylinder bore;  a bearing insert disposed within each    fiof    the first counterbores to  slidingly receive one of the piston  rods, and form the end of a fluid  cylinder;  a cylinder end cap disposed within each  of the second counterbores, around  the piston rod, behind the   bering     insert, the end caps being connected  to the mass member to hold the  bearing inserts in place;  a frame   : i.nterconnecting    the ends of the  oppositely extending piston rods,    the frame having a surface  thereon for   engaging    a surface  of the elastic medium; and  port means, disposed within   the    piston  members and the frame, communi    cating    -the cylinder bores with a  manifold and servovalve, for  introducing fluid under pressure  into the cylinder bores, altern  ately on opposite sides of each  piston, and concurrently on the  same sides of the several   piston     for simultaneously reciprocating  the piston members in concert,  relative to the mass member.   8. a transducer as claimed in claim 7 which is further characterized to include:  bumper means of resilient construction  disposed in axial alignment on  each end of said mass member and  in contacting attitude to said    frae.         9.    a transducer for inducing   seismic    energy waves in an elastic medium such as   ths    earth, comprising.    a single mass   member    having two offset  parallel aligned-cylinder bores    - ex4ending    therethrough;  first and second   piston    members each    having oppositely extending  piston rod ends, said piston  members   beings    reciprocally   disposed     in said two cylinder bores to  extend respective rod ends out  each side of said mass;  frame means of unitary structure to  rigidly support both rod ends of  said first and second piston members,  and including a base plate for  earth engaging coupling; and  means for hydraulically reciprocating  said first and second piston  members relative to said mass  member in synchronism to generate  an alternating reaction force for  earth coupling and propagation  as seismic energy waves.   10. a transducer as claimed in claim 9   wherein:     said alternating reaction force is  parallel to the earth's surface  to generate shear waves.   11. a transducer as claimed in claim 9, wherein:  said mass member is reciprocated on  said parallel-disposed first and  second piston member to the    eliminatinn    of any rotational  forces on sad   rasps      ember.     
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
