<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0016971
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19801015
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B22F-3/22 C04B-35/486 C04B-35/101 B32B-18/00 C04B-35/626 C04B-35/63 C04B-35/488 <main>C04B-35/14</main> B28B-1/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
a process of freezing an inorganic particulate slurry or suspension.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
ramu intus<sep>ramu international<sep>blasch precision ceramics, inc.99 cordell roadschenectady new york 12304us<sep>blasch precision ceramics, inc.<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
blasch earl bernard<sep>smith-johannsen robert<sep>blasch, earl bernard<sep>smith-johannsen, robert<sep>blasch, earl bernard53 nicholas drivealbany, new yorkus<sep>smith-johannsen, robertc/o barry capital management suite 2602 palo alto sq. palo alto cal. 94304us<sep>blasch, earl bernard<sep>smith-johannsen, robert<sep>blasch, earl bernard53 nicholas drivealbany, new yorkus<sep>smith-johannsen, robertc/o barry capital management suite 2602 palo alto sq. palo alto cal. 94304us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a process of freezing an inorganic particulate slurry or  suspension containing a freeze sensitive colloidal ceramic  sol which comprises supercooling the slurry in a freezing  media and then freezing the slurry to cause spontaneous  nucleation resulting in the formation of a very large num­ ber of ice crystals that are consequently very small thus  producing a ceramic structure that is very uniform through­ out is disclosed.  according to one aspect the invention  includes the addition of lithium ions to the freezing media  with or without supercooling.  also composite ceramic  structures composed of a laminate of at least two different  fired ceramic bodies in which at least one ceramic body  material has a different coefficient of expansion from at  least one other wherein each ceramic body are disclosed.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
a process of freezing an inorganic particulate slurry or suspension and a composite ceramic structure. the invention relates to a process of freezing an inorganic particulate slurry or suspension and a composite ceramic structure. namely, inorganic products, suchas refractory bodies, and method of producing such products by freezing aqueous slurries of the inorganic particles of which the inorganic products are composed, are disclosed. freezing a slurry of particulate inorganic materials to form refractory products has been disclosed in u.s. patents nos. 3,177,161; 3,512,571; 3,816,572 and 3,885,005. the production of refractory structures in accordance with the prior art resulted in products which often contain large voids which adversely affect the strength of the ceramic product, which in turn adversely affects their properties such as thermal conductivity and thermal shock resistance. these deficiencies in the resulting ceramic products are believed to be caused by nucleation at one of the cooling surfaces due to contact with an ice crystal or with the mold surface that has a nucleation temperature higher than that of the slurry itself as the dispersion is cooled to its freezing point. this nucleation is believed to cause large ice crystals to grow out from these points and eventually entrap the last remaining liquid, resulting in rupture, cracking, weak, and non-uniform ceramic strucvures. many attempts have been made to overcome this problem, such as thorough waxing of the molds, the use of different mold materials, thorough cleaning of mold surfaces, even with acids, but te problems still persisted. this invention relates to a process which substantially eliminates the problems discussed above by supercooling an inorganic particulate or a ceramic slurry containing a freeze sensitive ceramic colloidal sol to a temperature where it spontaneously nucleates the slurry resulting in the formation of a very large number of ice crystals that are consequently very small thus producing a ceramic structure that is very uniform throughout. the invention includes the addition of lithium ions to the freezing media with or without supercooling. the invention further includes composite inorganic structures which are in the nature of laminates where at least one inorganic structure, such as a zirconia plate, is adhered to a different inorganic structure, such as an alumina plate. the various inorganic particles that can be used according to this invention include, without limitation, aluminas: such as mullite and tabular alumina, silicas such as fused silica, magnesia, chromite, spinels such as chromite spinel, kyanite, carbomul, zirconia, mica, carbon, graphite, molydisulfide, uranium oxide, thoria, titania, clays, etc. the invention, however, is broadly applicable to suspensions of inorganic particles in general including other metal compounds. mixtures may be used if desired. the inorganic particle size s not c itical. best results seem to have been obtained to date when the majority of the particles, or 40-509 of them, are below about 200 mesh. small particle or grain size seeras to be particularly advantageous when using zirconia. much smaller particle sizes can also be used even in a colloidal size. the ultimate particle size and size
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:   1. a process of freezing an inorganic particulate slurry or suspension containing a freeze-sensitive colloidal ceramic sol which comprises supercooling the slurry in a freezing media and then freezing the slurry.   2. a process according to claim 1 in which the ceramic sol is a silica sol.   3. a process according to claim 1 in which the particulate slurry is a refractory slurry.   4. a process according to claim 3 in which the refractory is alumina, magnesia; zirconia, silica, zircon, mullite, uranium oxide, or clay.   5. a process according to claims 1, 2, 3 or 4 in which the particulate slurry contains lithium ions in a sufficient amount to inhibit ice crystal growth.   6. a process according to claims 1, 2, 3 or 4 in which the freezing media is a hydrophobic liquid.   7. a process according to claims 1, 2, 3 or 4 in which the freezing media is hydrophobic and the particulate slurry is completely surrounded by the hydrophobic liquid.   8. a process for freezing an inorganic particulate slurry or suspension containing a freeze-sensitive ceramic colloidal sol which comprises treating a mold with a hydrophobic liquid to completely cover the working surface of the mold with the hydrophobic liquid, inserting the   pariticulate    slurry or suspension into the mold and in  contact   with    the working surface thereof while the working surface is still wet with the hydrophobic liquid, reducing the temperature of the slurry to a sufficient degree to supercool the slurry, and thereafter freezing the supercooled slurry.   9. a process according to claim 8 in which the slurry or suspension contains lithium ions in an amount sufficient to inhibit large ice crystal growth.   10. a process according to claim 8 in which the temperature of the slurry is reduced in a freezing media and the freezing media is a hydrophobic liquid freezing media.   11. a process according to claims 8, 9 or 10 in which the mold contains the slurry on all sides except the top side, a hydrophobic liquid is placed on the slurry exposed at the top side in a sufficient amount to cover the slurry, a top closure.placed on the mold top, and the slurry then supercooled and then frozen.   12. a process according to claims 8, 9 or 10 in which the frozen slurry is removed from the mold, thawed, dried and fired.   13. a process of freezing an inorganic particulate slurry or suspension containing a freeze sensitive colloidal ceramic sol which comprises regulating or adjusting the relative zeta potentials of the particular particles and the sal particles to cause the sal particles to precipitate onto the surface of the particulate particles during the mixing of the particles.   14. a process according to claim 13 in which the inorganic particulate slurry contains magnesia or zirconia particles.     15. a process of freezing an inorganic particulate slurry or suspension containing a freeze-sensitive ceramic sol which comprises freezing the slurry or suspension in the presence of lithium ions contained in the slurry or suspension in an amount sufficient to inhibit ice crystal growth.   16. a process according to claim 15 in which the slurry or suspension is supercooled before it is frozen.   17. a process of making a composite inorganic article which comprises, farming a slurry composed of inorganic particles, forming at least a second slurry of different inorganic particles, bringing the slurries into physical contact with each other without substantial intermixing thereof, simultaneously freezing the slurries in a cooling media while in contact with each other to form a unified structure.   18. a process according to claim 17 in which the inorganic slurries are formed by mixing the particles together with a freeze-sensitive colloidal ceramic sol.   19. a process according to claim 18 in which the sol is a silica sol.   20. a process according to claims 17, 18 or 19 in which the slurries are supercooled before freezing.   21. a process according to claims 17, 18, 19 or 20 in which the cooling media is hydrophobic.   22. a process according to claims 17, 18, 19, 20 or 21 in which at least one of the slurries contains lithium ions in a sufficient amount to inhibit ice crystal growth.     23. a composite ceramic structure composed of a laminate of at least two different fired ceramic bodies in which at least one ceramic body material has a different coefficient of expansion from at least one other wherein each ceramic body has a void volume sufficient to permit expansion of the individual ceramic particles making up such body in accordance with its own coefficient of expansion but in which each ceramic body has a mass coefficient of expansion sufficiently low to prevent delamination of the ceramic lamina upon being subjected to heat up to at least about   30000.       24. the composite ceramic structure of claim 23 in which one of the bodies or lamina is alumina and the other zirconia, zircon, magnesia or silica.   25. a composite ceramic structure composed of at least two different ceramics laminated together in the absence of an independent adhesive and having a mass thermal coefficient of expansion sufficiently low to withstand heat of at least about 30000f without causing delamination of the ceramics.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
