<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0011202
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800528
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
E04B-7/00 E04B-2/58 <main>E04C-2/46</main> E04D-13/16 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
support means for wall or roof structure.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
robertson co h hus<sep>h.h.±robertson company<sep>h.h. robertson companytwo gateway centerpittsburgh pennsylvania 15222us<sep>h.h. robertson company <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
dyer frederick william<sep>dyer, frederick william<sep>dyer, frederick william2103 courtland driveburlington ontario, l7r 1ca<sep>dyer, frederick william <sep>dyer, frederick william2103 courtland driveburlington ontario, l7r 1ca<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a roof or wall structure incorporating support assemblies  is disclosed.  the roof or wall structure (90) comprises an inner  sheath (92) secured to plural spaced-apart purlins or girts (84);  an outer sheath (94); plural spaced-apart support means (96)  each assembled from a plurality of the present support means  (96), secured to the inner sheath (92) and to the outer sheath  (94) for maintaining the outer sheath (94) spaced from the  inner sheath (92); and thermal insulation (102) filling the  space between the inner and outer sheaths (92,94).  the  arrangement is such that the thermal insulation (102) has a  substantially uniform thickness throughout the roof or wall  structure.  the depth of the support means may be varied to  accommodate the desired thickness of thermal insulation  (102).  the support means (96) accommodate thermal expan­ sion and contraction of the outer sheath (94) independently of  the inner sheath 92), thereby totally eliminating the possibility  of leaks associated with prior art structures.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
support means for wall or roof structure this invention relates to insulated, double-sheath roof or wall structures, and more particularly to improved support means for maintaining the outer sheath spaced from the inner sheath without undesirable compression of the insulation. building structures, such as pre-engineered metal buildings, reguire thermal insulation to minimize energy losses caused by the relatively high thermal conductance of the metal components of the building. numerous insulating systems are disclosed in the prior art. insulated wall structures are known comprising inner and outer sheets maintained in spaced-apart relation by a subgirt structure, and a layer of thermal insulation therebetween. in one such wall structure, the outer sheets are connected to the inner sheets by a plurality of end interconnected subgirts. the subgirts are in direct contact with the outer sheets and with the inner sheets thereby providing a relatively free path for the through conduction of heat. see, for example, u.s. patent numbers 2,841,253 (coffman et al); 2,876,871 (cofflan et al); 3,054,482 (lassen). in a simi¯at wall structure, the subgirt structure comprises elongated subgirts and spaced-apart clips having low thermal conductance. to achieve a surprisingly low overall heattransfer coefficient, the structure requires a vapor barrier between the insulation and the inner panels, and requires inserts which minimize convection circulation of air within the wall. while the structure has an excellent low overall heat-transfer coefficient, no means is provided for accommodating thermal expansion and contraction of the outer sheet. see u.s. patent number 3,474,583 (manias). single skin roof structures are known comprising blankettype glass fiber insulation extending across the tops of sup-c-ti.g purlins, and an outer skin overlying the insulation. when the outer skin is secured to the supporting pu-linst the insulation therebetween is almost totally compressed. the compressed insulation loses up to 50% of its r-l=lue and undergoes a reduction in thickness in the region between adjacent purlins. a recently disclosed roof insulating system is useful in overcoming the drastic loss of r-value. the system requires four distinct insulating means. the system does not accommodate thermal expansion and contraction of the outer skin. see u.s. patent number 4,014,150 (wells et al). single skin roof structures may also be subject to objectionable moisture condensation. that is, the outer skin fasteners, the shanks of which are exposed inside of the building, constitute thermal paths for through conduction of heat and cold. during winter weather, the interaction of the thermal paths with the heated interior air can result in condensation of moisture on the fastener shanks, and dripping of water from the ceiling. r¯a¯ the present invention provides a wall or roof structure comprising an inner sheath extending across and secured to each of a plurality of spaced-apart girts or purlins, an outer sheath, and plural support means extending transversely of the outer sheath and supporting the outer sheath in spaced-apart relation with the inner sheath. each of the support means comprises a plurality of axially spaced-apart clips having connecting webs generally normal to the inner sheath, first legs extending
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:   1. a two-piece support assembly for sheathing panels,  comprising:  a clip having a connecting web, a first leg extending  laterally from an upper web end and a base at a lower  web end, and a first slot in said connecting web spaced  from and generally parallel with said first leg;  a subgirt having a first end overlying said first leg  and a second end remote from said first leg, said  subgirt including: :  an end plate extending therefrom in overlapping  relation with said connecting web,  a connecting strip extending from said end plate  through said first slot and being inclined relative  to said end plate toward said first leg thereby to  slideably connect said first end of said subgirt  to said clip, the width of said connecting strip  being less than the length of said slot;    -   tongue    extending longitudinally outwardly from said  second end of said subgirt;  and  a second slot provided in an exterior face of said  subgirt and being spaced from said end plate;  whereby a plurality of the support assemblies may be  installed with the subgirts thereof in end-overlapped  relation, and said tongue of one said support assembly  engaged in the second slot of a previously installed  support assembly, and with said second slot of said one  support assembly receiving the tongue of a subsequently  installed support assembly.   2. the support assembly of claim 1 including  a web segment extending along one side of said second  slot toward the plane of slid first leg; and  said tongue having a j-shaped configuration and being  adapted to be hooked under the web segment of a   next-     in-line subgirt.   3. the support assembly of claim 1 wherein said subgirt  presents  coplanar flanges extending outwardly from opposite  sides thereof and engaged with said first leg; and  tabs formed integrally with said flanges and engaged  beneath said first leg.   4. the support assembly of claim 1 wherein  said second end has an interior width which is at least  equal to the exterior width of said first end.     5. - the support assembly of claim 1 wherein said connecting  web of said clip is apertured to minimize the cross  sectional area available for through-conduction of  heat.   6. the support assembly of claim 1 wherein said subgirt  comprises  a central web having said tongue and said end plate  formed integrally with opposite ends thereof,  side walls extending from opposite sides of said  central web toward said clip, and  coplanar flanges extending outwardly from corresponding  inner edges of said side walls and engaged with said  first leg of said clip.   7. a wall or roof structure comprising:  an inner sheath extending across and secured to each of  a plurality of spaced-apart structural members;  an outer sheath;  plural support means extending transversely of said  outer sheath and supporting said outer sheath in  spaced-apart relation with said inner sheath;  each of  said support means comprising  a plurality of axially spaced-apart clips having  connecting webs generally normal to said inner sheath,  first legs extending from outboard ends of said webs,  and bases secured to said inner sheath;  a plurality of   axially    aligned subgirts having first  ends overlying the first legs of said clips and second    ends overlapping the first ends of the next-in-line  subgirts, said outer sheath being secured to said  subgirts;  first connecting means slideably connecting said first  ends to the adjacent clips for movement parallel to the  plane of said first legs thereby to accommodate thermal  expansion and contraction of said outer sheath;  second connecting means connecting said second ends to  said first ends against disengagement thereof under  suction load conditions;  and  thermal insulation disposed in the space between the  inner and outer sheaths and having a substantially  uniform thickness throughout said roof or wall structure.   8. the roof or wall structure of claim 7 wherein the  connecting webs of said clips are apertured to minimize  the cross-sectional area available for through-conduc  tion of heat.   9. the roof or wall structure of claim 7 wherein each of  said second connecting means comprises:  a slot provided in an outboard face of the first end of  one subgirt; and  a tongue extending from the second end of an over  lapping subgirt through said slot.   10. the roof or wall structure of claim 9 including  a web segment extending along one side of said   slpt     toward the adjacent clip; and    wherein said tongue has a j-shaped configuration and is  hooked about the inner edge of said web segment.   11. the roof or wall structure of claim 7, 9 or 10 wherein  each of said first connecting means comprises:  a slot in the connecting web of each clip spaced from  and generally parallel with the first leg; and  an end plate extending from the first end of the  adjacent subgirt in overlapping relation with said con  necting web, said end plate having a connecting strip  extending therefrom through said slot and being inclined  relative to the connecting web toward the first leg of  the clip.    12. the wall or roof structure of claim 7 wherein each of  said support means is aligned with one of said   struc-       tural members,    the bases of said clips being secured to  said one of said structural members.   13. the wall or roof structure of claim 7 wherein the inner  sheath comprises a thin layer of insulation having an  impervious backing.   14. the wall or roof structure of claim 7 wherein each of  said subgirts present  coplanar flanges extending outwardly from opposite  sides thereof and engaged with the first leg of the  adjacent clip; and  tabs formed integrally with said flanges and engaged  beneath the first leg.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
