<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0012134
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800625
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
C09D-4/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
process for forming a polymeric coating on a metallic surface, acidic aqueous coating compositions and coating systems employing such compositions.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
amchem prod<sep>amchem products, inc. a corporation organised under the laws of the state of delaware united statesof america<sep>amchem products, inc. a corporation organised under the laws of the state of delaware united states of americabrookside avenueambler pennsylvania 19002us<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
hall wilbur sus<sep>hall, wilbur s.<sep>hall, wilbur s.126 germantown pike plymouth meetingmontgomery pennsylvaniaus<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a process for forming a polymeric coating on a metal足 lic surface, and particularly ferriferous surtaces, comprises  contacting the surface with an acidic aqueous coating  composition containing a monomer, and to form an effec足 tive coating the monomer is chosen to be capable of poly足 merizing to form a polymer having a multiplicity of groups  which are ionizable to form negatively-charged groups on  the polymer chain.  a process for coating a metallic surface  using an autodepositing composition is modified by in足 corporation into the autodepositing composition of a  monomer capable of polymerizing.  coating compositions  for use in such processes are also provided, as well as  coating systems comprising a metallic surface immersed in  the compositions.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
process for forming a polymeric coating on a metallic surface, acidic aqueous coating compositions and coating systems employing such compositions. this invention relates to a process for forming a polymeric coating on a metallic surface which comprises contacting the surface with an acidic aqueous coating composition containing a monomer, and in particular to such a process in which the metallic surface is immersed in the coating composition. this invention also concerns acidic aqueous coating compositions for use in such processes, and a coating system comprising a metallic surface immersed in the compositions. various types of compositions are known for forming organic or polymeric coatings on metallic substrates. for example, u.s. patent no. 3,397,077 to boller et al discloses a coating composition comprising an aqueous solution containing a water soluble organic resin-forming material and an inorganic oxyacid such as sulphuric, sulphonic, boric, phosphoric or nitric acid. in a coating process utilizing this type of composition, a metallic surface is immersed in the composition and there is formed thereon a polymeric coating as a result of the resin-forming material polymerizing to the extent of forming a solid polymeric material which deposits on the metallic surface. the resin-forming materials disclosed in this patent are materials which polymerize to form condensation polymers such as amine resins, polyamide resins and polyester resins.' the patent discloses that the inorganic oxyacid is included in the composition in amounts sufficient to effect reaction between the composition and the metallic surface. british patent no. 1,155,497 discloses the application to an iron substrate of a resinous coating utilizing an acidic aqueous coating composition comprising: (a) a soluble, polymerizable substituted acrylamide; and (b) a water soluble hydroperoxide, for example h202. the coating process described in this patent is similar to the process described in the aforementioned boller et al patent in that each of the processes involves the use of an aqueous composition which contains acid and a monomeric constituent that polymerizes in the presence of a metallic substrate to form a polymeric or resinous material which deposits on the substrate. the processes described in the aforementioned patents differ in that the polymeric material formed in the boller et al process is a condensation polymer, whereas the polymeric material formed in the process of the british patent is an addition polymer. in contrast to the processes described in the aforementioned patents, it is knom also to deposit resinous coatings on metallic substrates by immersing the substrates in water-based compositions that contain preformed resinous materials. as such, these types of processes do not rely on the polymerization of monomers in the presence of the metallic substrates, as described in the aforementioned patents. electrocoating is an example of a process in which a resinous coating is deposited on a metallic substrate from a water-based composition containing a preformed polymeric resinous material. as its name implies, the electrocoat process involves the use of electricity. a relatively recent development in the organic coating field is the provision of water-based coating compositions which are effective, without
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 ckms   1. a process for forming a polymeric coating on a metallic surface which comprises contacting the surface with an acidic aqueous coating composition containing a monomer characterized in that the monomer is capable of polymerizing to form a polymer having a multiplicity of groups capable of ionizing to form negatively-charged groups on the polymer chain.   2. a process for forming a polymeric coating on a metallic surface which comprises immersing the surface in an acidic aqueous composition containing a monomer to form a polymeric coating. on the surface during immersion in the composition characterized in that the monomer is such that the formed coating comprises a polymer having a multiplicity of groups capable of ionizing to form negatively-charged groups on the polymer chain.   3. a process as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, characterized in that the composition includes an initiator and a monomer capable of forming an addition polymer.   4. a process as claimed in claim 3, characterized in that the monomer is an ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acid.   5. a process as claimed in claim 4, characterized in that the metallic surface is a ferriferous surface and in that the composition contains acrylic acid monomer, hydrogen peroxide initiator and hydrofluoric acid, the polymerization of the monomer being initiated at room temperature.   6. an acidic aqueous coating composition containing a monomer characterized in that the monomer is capable of polymerizing to form a polymer having a multiplicity of groups capable of ionizing to form negatively-charged groups on the polymer chain.   7. a process for coating a metallic surface comprising contacting the surface with an autodepositing compo  sition characterized in that the autodepositing composition   contains- a    monomer which is capable of polymerizing.   8. a process as claimed in claim 7, characterized in that the metallic surface is immersed in said composition and the monomer polymerizes and deposits on the surface during the immersion.   9. a process as claimed in claim 7, characterized in that the monomer is capable of forming an addition polymer.   10. a process as claimed in claim 9, characterized in that the'monomer is diacetone acrylamide.   11. an autodepositing composition characterized in that it contains a monomer capable of polymerizing.   12. a coating system comprising a metallic surface immersed in an acidic aqueous coating composition characterized in that the coating composition is a composition as claimed in claim 6 or claim 11.         aendcb clapis    1. a process for forming a polymeric coating on a metallic surface which comprises contacting the surface with an acidic aqueous coating composition consisting of water, acid and a monomer characterised in that the monomer is capable of polymerizing at room temperature to form a polymer having a multiplicity of groups capable of ionizing to form negatively-charged groups on the polymer chain and which is soluble in the acidic medium of the composition, and in that the process further comprises polymerizing said monomer to form the polymer on the surface.   2. a process for forming a polymeric coating on a metallic surface which comprises immersing the surface in an acidic aqueous composition consisting of water, acid, an initiator, and a monomer to form a polymeric coating on the surface during immersion in the composition characterised in that the   monomers    such that the formed coating comprises a polymer having a multiplicity of groups capable of ionizing to form negatively-charged groups on the polymer chain.   3. a process as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 characterised in that the composition includes an initiator and the monomer is capable of forming an addition polymer.   4. a process as claimed in claim 3, characterised in that the monomer is an ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acid.   5. a process as claimed in claim 4, characterised in that the metallic surface is a ferriferous surface and in that the composition contains acrylic acid monomer, hydrogen peroxide initiator and hydrofluoric acid, the polymerization of the monomer being initiated at room temperature.   6. an acidic aqueous coating composition containing a monomer characterised in that the monomer is capable of polymerizing to form a polymer having a multiplicity of groups capable of ionizing to form negatively-charged groups on the polymer chain.   7. a process for coating a metallic surface comprising contacting the surface with an autodepositing compo  sition characterized in that the autodepositing composition   contains    monomer which is capable of polymerizing.    8. a process as claimed in claim 7, characterized in that the metallic surface is immersed in said composition end the monomer polymerizes and deposits on the surface   during -the    immersion.   9. a process as claimed in claim 7, characterized in that the monomer is capable of forming an addition polymer.   10. a process as claimed in claim 9, characterized in that   the-monomer    is diacetone acrylamide.   11. an autodepositing composition characterized in that it contains a monomer capable of polymerizing.   12. a coating system comprising a metallic surface immersed in an acidic aqueous coating composition characterized in that the coating composition is a composition as claimed in claim 6 or claim 11.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
