<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0011905
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800611
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
A01D-34/30 A01D-34/02 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
a mowing machine.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
patent concern nvnl<sep>patent concern n.v.<sep>patent concern n.v.handelskade 24willemstad curaçao (n.a.)an<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
van der lely cornelisch<sep>van der lely, cornelis<sep>van der lely, cornelisbrüschenrain 7zugch<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a mowing machine comprises two reciprocatory cutter  members (46,47) disposed one above the other for move­ ment in opposite directions to cut crop with a scissor action.   the cutter members are resiliently displaceable against the  action of springs (42,43) to avoid damage if, for example,  stones are encountered.  the cutter members are fitted to a  support (2) in a manner which renders them readily remov­ able by displacing them in a direction transverse of the direc­ tion (94) of reciprocation.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
a mot g machine this invention relates to a mowing machine comprising a frame on which at least one reciprocatory cutting member is mounted, drive means being provided for driving the cutting member in reciprocation. according to a frisk aspect of the present invention there is provided a mowing machine comprising a frame on which at least one reciprocatory cutting member is mounted, drive means being provided for driving the cutting member in reciprocation, characterised in that the frame comprising a frame portion extending along said cutting member whereby the cutting member is displaceable with respect to the support in a direction having at least a component parallel to the intended direction of operative travel of the machine. a mowing machine in accordance with this aspect of the present invention can effectively operate without the risk of damage of the cutting member. the crop can be safely and rapidly cut with a low energy consumption. the manufacturing costs of the mowing machine can be kept low. according to a second aspect of the present invention, there is provided a mowing machine comprising a frame on which at least one reciprocatory cutting member is mounted, drive means being provided for driving the cutting member in reciprocation, characterised in that the from comprising @ from @@@ extending along said cutting member whereby the cutting member is resiliently displaceable with respect to the frame portion in a dir- ection having a component parallel to the intended direction of operative travel of the machine. in an advantageous embodiment, the cutting member is connected to the frame portion b means of at least one roc which is connected displacebly to the frame portion according to a third aspect of the present invention there is provided a owing machine comprising a frame on which at least one cutting member is mounted, drive leans being provided for driving the cutting member in reciprocation, characterised :-r that the drive means cause the cutting member to vibrate during operation of the machine thereby to cut drop. advantageously the mowing machine is provided with two cutting members arranged so as th be movable relatively to one another and relatively to the frame portion, the cutting members being caused to vibrate in opposite senses in the driving means. according in a fourth aspect of the present invention the rewhere p@@ ded@ mowing machine as mentioned here before, whereby tre cr e-cr cutter member comprises a steel band. not this construction satisfactorily operating cutting members can be manufactured in a simple manner. according to a fifth aspect of the present invention there is provided a mowing machine comprising a frame on which a reciprocatory cutting member is mounted, drive means being provided for driving the cutting member in reciprocation, caracterised in that the cutting member is fitted to the frame portion in a readily releasable manner. when, for example, the cutting edges become blunt, the cutting member can be readily replaced by another or @i@@sy be readily removed for repair. according a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims 1. a mowing machine comprising a frame on which att least the reciprocatory cutting member is mounted, drive means   c@ing    provided for driving the cutting member in reciprocatory characterised in that the frame comprising a frame portion extending along said cutting member, where    by @ @@@ @@@ @@mteri@ displaceable with respect to the    frame portions in a direction having at least a component parallel to the intended direction of operative travel  of the machine.   2. a moving machine as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that the cutting member is resiliently displaceable with respect to the frame portion.   3. a moving machine comprising a frame on which at least one reciprocatory cutting member is mounted, drive means having provided for driving the cutting member in reciprocatory characterized in that the frame comprising a frame portion extending along said cutting member, whereby the cutting member is resiliently displaceable with respect to the frame portion in a direction having a component parallel to the intended direction of operative travel of the machine.   4. a moving machine as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3 in which the cutting member is connected to the frame portions by at least one rod which is connected displaceably to the frame portion 5. a moving machine as claimed in claim 4, characterised   @@@    or each rod is alidably received in a  46 or 47   wi    is carrier 40 or 41,   which    are maintained during the reciprocatory movements.   the mowing   machine    as described   can    be   manufactured    at low cost. the   constructicrs    described   can    mow crop in a safe manner without the risk of undue damage of the cutting members 46 and 47 by obstacles such as   stones.      the   mowing    machine can be coupled in a simple manner with a tractor or a similar vehicle   and    be   driven    from   th    power take-oft shaft of the tractor. with the transmisst ratio of   thr    opinions 69 and 74 relative to the pinion 70 of 1:10 the driving shaft 34 need rotate only with a speed of 600 rev/min. whereas the eccentriomechanisme rotate   about    their axes with a speed of about 6000 rev/ min. in this way an advantageous drive speed fo the drun 91 and 92 and fo the cutting members 46 and 47 is obtained. ene rapid, reciprocatory movement of the cutting members 46 and 47 produces a vibratory motion with a stroke   preferably    not exceeding the   distance    between the cutter edges 63 of the cutting members.      whilst    various features of the   mowing    machine that have been described, and that are illustrated in the drawings, will be set forth   in    the following claims as inventive features, it is to be noted that the invention is not necessarily limited to these features and that it encompasses all   of    the features that have been described both   individually    and in various combinations.     supporting bearing   oç    the frame portion.      6.    a mowing machine as claimed in claim 4 or -5, characterized in that the or each rod is pivotally   mounted    on the frame portion.   7. a mowing machine as claimed in any one of claims 4 to 6, when   appendant    to claim 2 or 3, characterized in that the or each rod is surrounded by a spring permitting the   resilient    displacement of the cutting member.   8. a mowing machine as claimed in any one of claims 4 to   7,,    characterized in that the or each rod   is arranged    between two plates of the frame portion.   9. a mowing machine as claimed in   any    one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the cutting member is fitted to a carrier supported by parts of the frame portion, whereby the carrier with the   cutting    member is displaceable with respect to the frame portion.      83.    a mowing machine as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the cutting member is drivable by the drive means to perform a reciprocatory, vibratory movement.    11. a mowing machine comprising a frame on which at least one cutting member is   mounted,    drive means being  provided for driving the cutting member in   reciprocationr    characterized in that the drive means cause the cutting member to vibrate during operation of the machine thereby to cut crop.   12. a mowing machine as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the machine comprises two cutting members which, in operation, move   rxtively    to one another and to the frame portion, the cutting members being drive, in operation, in opposite directions in a reciprocatory mariner by the drive   means     13. a   mowing    machine as claimed in claim 12, characterized in that each of the cutting members is fitted to a carrier and in which the carriers are reciprocably connected to the frame   portion    so as to be movable with respect to one another and to the frame portion the carriers engaging one another.     14. a mowine maching as alsimed in any one of the preceding   claims,    characterized in that the or   each    cut ting member comprises a steel band.   15. a mowing machine as claimed in   any    one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the cutting member is   fitted    to the rest of the   machine    in a readily releasable   mariner.      16. a mowing   machine    comprising a frame portion on which a reciprocatory cutting member is mounted, drive means being provided for driving the   cutting    member in reciprocation, characterized   in    that the cutting member is fitted to the frame portion in a readily releasable   manner    17. a mowing   machine    as   claimed    in claim 15 or 16, characterized in that the cutting member is fitted to a carrier in such a way as to be removable   in    a direction transverse to the direction of reciprocation of the cutting member during operation.   18. a mowing machine comprising a frame on which at leapt one   cutting    member is   mounted,    drive means being provided for   driving    the cutting member during operation of the   machine    characterized in that the cutting member is fitted   to p    carrier which extends over the working width of   the @@chine, @in    a readily releasable mannner 19. a mowing machine as   claimed    in claim 17 or 18, charactericed in that the cutting member is connected to the carrier by a self-latching detent.      20.      h      mo@ung    machine as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the cutting member is a strip having a length of   about    1600 mm, a width of   about      2      me      w.---    a   thickness    of about 1 mm.    21.   h    mowin   machine    as   claimed    in   any    one of the pre   ceding.    claims. characterized in that the cutting member is providad with teeth each having a length of less than to   =,    whereas the pitch of the teeth. is less than 30   mm.      22. a mowung machine as claimed in anyone of the preceding   @la@@,    characterized in that the drive means comprises   @@@@@ tic    rechenisg which is driven from a dri      ving    shaft   jourraalled    in the   machine.         23.    a mowing machine as claimed in claim 22,   charac-    terized   in    that two cutting members are each driven   ty    a respective eccentric mechanism and in which the eccentric   mechanism    are locatedunéar one   another      and    are each provided on a respective shaft provided with a respective pinion, the two   opinions    meshing with a common pinion on the driving shaft.   24. a mowing machine as claimed in claim 22 or 23,   chtracterized    in that the or each cutting member is caused to reciprocate in operation with a frequency of about 6000 strokes a minute.      25,    a mowing machine as claimed in any one of claims 22 to 24, characterized in that the or each eccentrie mechanism is located between two members   forming    the frame portion.      26.    a mowing machine as claimed in any one of claims 22 to 25, characterized in that the driving shaft extends above the parts supporting the or each eccentric mecha- nism and the cutting member is coupled near   the    top   "-t'n    a transmission that can be coupled with a   driving    mechanism for the cutting member, the driving shaft is provided with a drum for displacing cut crop, the drum   extenalng    to a greater height than   the matting    members   27s      h      mowing      machine    comprising a frame on   which    at least one reciprocatory cutting member is mounted,  driving means being provided for driving the cutting member in reciprocation, characterized in that the or each reciprocatory cutting member co-operates with a drum for dis   placing    cut crop.   28. a mowing machine as claimed in claim 26 or 27, characterized in that the drum' has a conical shape and tapers from bottom to top.    29. a mowing machine as claimed in any one of claims 26 to 28, , characterized in that a drivable   drum    is provided near each end of the cutting member.      3'.    a mowing machine as claimed in any one of the   preceding    claims, characterized in that the   frame    portion  is pivotally coupled with am   iste@ediate    frame which is pivotally coupled with a coupling   frame    provided with fastening means for hitching the machine to a prime mover.   31. a mowing machine as claimed in claim 30, characterized in that the coupling frame is provided with a driving member which can be coupled with the power takeoff shaft of a prime mover.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
