<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0009946
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800416
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
H01J-35/16 H01J-35/18 H01J-35/26 H01J-35/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
x-ray tube.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
pfizer us <sep>pfizer inc.<sep>pfizer inc.235 east 42nd streetnew york, n.y. 10017us<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
braun martinus<sep>braun, martin<sep>braun, martin804 saratoga avenue santa clara countysan jose, californiaus<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
off-focus radiation in an x-ray tube due to back-scattered  radiation is substantially reduced by enclosing the anode  target 28 in a metal enclosure which is maintained at the  anode potential, enclosing the cathode in an attached, insula­ tive envelope which is substantially separate from the anode  enclosure, and by providing effective heat transfer from the  anode enclosure to a cooling medium, especially at the area of  impact of back-scattered electrons with the inner walls of the  anode enclosure.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
n-ray tube this invention relates to x-ray tubes and more particularly to an improved rotating anode type x-ray tube. at present, the majority of x-ray tubes used in medical diagnostic work are of te rotating anode target type. their main advantage is high power capability, which allows short exposures, thus minimizing image blurring by patient tissue motion. although many improvements have been made on this tube type in the past, some of the inherent problems have not been overcome and limit the range of useful applications of the rotating anode x-ray tube. one problem is unwanted x-ray radiation emanating from areas on the rotating anode other than the focal spot area. these x-rays are generated b back-scattered electrons which are bouncing back from the point cf impact on the target, usually after losing some of their primary energy. the number of back-scattered electrons reaches 50% of the number cf primary electrons. this so-called of focus radiation leads to decrease contrast in the x-ray image. it is also an unnecessary amount of radiation dose to the paten or. e orcer of l0-25% of the useful radiation coming frcrn the focal spot generated by the prirr.ry electron beam. at the beginnin of an exposure a large camber of back-scattered electrons hit the glass envelope of the x-ray tube, until it is charged up to a revel determined by the equilibrium between back-scattered electrons, positive and negative ions, and currents leaking off through the, glass envelope. this e9ulibri.um depends on the number of gas molecules present in the tube as well as on surface cleanliness of the glass bulb and glass bulk conductivity, all of which are functions of the temperatures of the various tube parts at any one time. depending on this equilibrium, the equipotential pattern in the tube varies considerably in time as well as from tube to tube, leading to an unpredictable degree of high voltage instability in the tube, leading to an upredictable degree of high voltage instability in the tube. as a matter of fact, high voltage instability problems are a most common failure mode of x-ray tubes. .. the back-scattered electrons., as well as ionized gas molecules also deposit energy on the glass surface, which can lead to glass cracking or melting and liberation of additional gas loads trom the glass surface into the tube. this in turn causes high voltage arcing in the tube. the back-scattered electrons are also responsible for unnecessary energy deposits on the rotating anode, which is about 308 to 40% of the total energy of the primary electrons. if the secondary electrons are not allowed to fall back onto the rotating anode, more of the useful primary radiation may be generated before the target heat limits are reached. this would increase the usage factor of an x-ray tube, which would have an influence on the economy of an x-ray department in areas where hi h x-ray tube loads are desired such as for special procedures and for tomographic procedures. another problem sometimes
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
    claims       1. an improved x-ray tube of the type having an anode, a cathode for generating a beam of electrons to impinge on   the znode,    whereby x-rays are produced, and a vacuum enclosure for the anode and cathode, wherein the improvement comprises an electrically conductive, walled enclosure for the anode, means for   equalizin    the electrical potential between the anode and the anode enclosure,   2    separate, electrically   insulative    enclosure for the cathode which enclosure is joined to the anode enclosure at   2    junction point, the anode and cathode enclosures having connecting openings therein to allow the passage of the beam of electrons generated by the cathode to impinge on the anode,  and means integral with the anode enclosure for dissipating heat from the anode enclosure walls at the juncture of the anode and cathode enclosures.    2. an improved x-ray tube as recited in claim 1, wherein the anode enclosure is made of metal and the heat dissipating means include a portion of the anode enclosure which surrounds the opening to the cathode enclosure and which is thickened compared to the remaining walls of the anode enclosure.    3. an improved x-ray tube as recited in claim 1, wherein the heat dissipating means include cooling medium carrying passages within that portion of the anode enclosure wall which is located at the junction point with the cathode enciosure.      4. an improved x-ray tube as recited in claim 1, wherein the heat dissipating means include a hollow neck which joins the cathode enclosure to the anode enclosure at the junction point so as to separate the enclosures by an annular space for receiving a cooling medium.    5. an improved x-ray tube as recited in claim 1, further including rotor means for rotating the anode about an axis, an   electricall    conductive, walled enclosure for the rotor meons, the rotor means enclosure being attached to the anode enclosure so that the two are at the same electrostatic potential, and a radiation barrier integral with the portion of the anode enclosure wall which separates the andoe and rotor enclosures.    6. an improved x-ray tube as recited in claim 5, further comprising a shaft for mounting the anode, a pair of bearing assemblies for rotatably supporting the anode shaft, and wherein one of the bearing assemblies is mounted in the rotor enclosure, on one side of the anode, and the other bearing assembly is mounted in the anode enclosure, on the side of the anode opposite from the rotor enclosure.    7. an improved x-ray tube as recited in claim 1, further including rotor means for rotating the anode about an axis, an enclosure for the rotor means, the rotor means enclosure being attached to the anode enclosure on one side of the anode, and the cathode enclosure being attached to the anode enclosure on the   opposite    side of the anode.      8. an improved x-ray tube as recited in claim 1, further including rotor means for rotating the anode about an axis of rotation, and wherein the cathode projects the beam of electrons against the anode in a direction which is prependicular to the anode's axis of rotation, and the area of impact of the electron beam on the anode is oriented with respect to the cathode and the anode's axis of rotation such that the x-ray beam produced thereby is directed away from the rotor means in a direction generally parallel to the anode's axis of rotation.     9. an improved x-ray tube as recited in claim 8, further comprising a plurality of such cathodes for projecting a plurality of such x-ray beams.    10. an improved x-ray tube as recited in claim 1, wherein at least the interior portion of the anode enclosure which surrounds and is immediately adjacent to the opening to the cathode enclosure is comprised of a material of an atomic number not greater than 29 and has a thickness of at least 100um to substantially reduce reback-scattering of electrons and off-focus x-ray   radiation.       11. an improved x-ray tube as recited in claim 10, wherein the material comprises   beryllium.       12. an improved x-ray tube as recited in claim 1, wherein at least the outer protion of the anode enclosure is comprised of a substantially x-ray opaque material.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
