<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0011972
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800611
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
H01H-33/18 H01H-33/04 H02B-13/00 <main>H01H-33/18</main> 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
electrical switchgear.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
south wales switchgeargb <sep>south wales switchgear limited<sep>south wales switchgear limited blackwood gwent, np2 2xh gb<sep>south wales switchgear limited<sep>south wales switchgear limited  <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
parry john<sep>parry, john<sep>parry, john"pen y garn" bryn road pontllanfraithblackwood, gwentgb<sep>parry, john<sep>parry, john<sep>parry, john"pen y garn" bryn road pontllanfraithblackwood, gwentgb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
on opening of a circuit breaker, an end portion 19 of a  pivotable contact arm 12 disengages from fixed contacts 7  such that an arc is drawn therebetween radially across the  pole face of a field coil 9, the end portion 19 moving trans­ versely to the field coil axis.  the arc then transfers from the  contacts 7 to a tubular electrode 24 thereby bringing the field  coil 9 into circuit so that a magnetic field is generated which  causes the arc to rotate and become extinguished.  in the  fully-open position of the circuit breaker, the end portion 19  lies along the field coil axis.  the whole assembly is disposed  in a housing 2 which contains the highly insulating gas sul­ phur hexafluoride.  a single field coil and electrode can be  shared between two such constructions.  arrangements are  also disclosed in which the initial arc is  drawn directly between the contact arm 12 and the electrode  24.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
this invention relates to electrical switchgear, the term "switchgear" being used to embrace circuit breekers and other electrical switches. in recent years, circuit breakers bave been developed which make use of the hihl insulating gas sulphur hexafluroide to extinguish an are drawn between contacts. it is not generally sufficient to rely on the properties of the gas alone, and a known technique of are extinction when using this gas is to transfer the are @rawn betv.cen p. movinp and a fixed contact from the fixed contact to an arcinr. electrode which is connected tc thr fixed contact through a field coil, so that the arc current passing throuh the field coil causes a magnetie field to be generated which makes the arc rotate and become extinguished. the success of this technique naturally requires that the magnetie ield generated shall have sufficient intensity te make the are rotate. she intensity cf the magnetic field d@es, however, depend unon the strength of the current passing through the field coil. in nractice, one can usually rely on the arc current in a circuit breaker operating under short circuit conduit onus to be sufficient to create are rotation. circuit breakers and other switches have also to interrunt currents of lower magnitude, for example, load currents, canacitive currents in urloaded cables and the small inductive currents associated with unloaded tnqnsformer and rotating machines. when breaking low currents, a rotary arc device may fail to transfer the arc to the arcing electrode and to create subsequent rotation. a common form of distribution switchgear for voltages up to 36 kilovolts incorporates circuit breakers of the oilfilled type isolated from fixed units by vertical withdrawal. this range of switchpear also incorporates non-automaticload break switches and, especially for voltages of 12 kilovolts and lower, ring main equipment incorporating at least three switch functions to control, for example, a transformer and two rin.g main cables. although this type of equipment has been used satisfactorily for many years, it would be desirable to apply to it the use of sulphur hexafluoride to gain the advantages of higher interrupting performance with a corresponding reduction in the frequency of contact maintenance. and freedom from fire hazard. the application of a rotating-are sulphure hexafluoride system is particularly desirable for this class of equipment because 9f the small mechanical energy reouirements resulting from the relatively short contact stroke and the fact that a mechanical compression device or puffer is not required. difficulties in applying rotating arc sulphur hexafluoride techniques to circuit breakers and switches of the size associated with distribution switchgear up to 35 kilovolts include the need to ensure that the arc ca be ;na-de to rotate reliably at all values of breaking current and the need to provide a compact and economical arrangement which is not at a disadvantage is size or requirements of mechan.ica.l operating energy with respect to oil-filled equipment. it is an object of the present invention to obvia.te or mitigate these difficulties. according to the present invention, there is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:   1. electrical switchgear employing an electrically insulating fluid for arc extinction in which during disengagement of first and second contacts an arc is drawn radially across the pole face of a field coil between the first contact and an arcing electrode, the arcing current flowing through the field coil to produce a magnetic field   which    causes the arc to rotate and become extinguished, characterised in that the first contact (12) is pivotable about an axis transverse to the axis of the field coil (9) and has an end portion (19) which moves transversely and    inwardly    of the field coil axis when the contacts are opened.   2. electrical   switchgear    according to claim 1,   wherein    the contact end portion (19) is elongate and lies along the field coil axis   when    the switchgear is fully open.   3. electrical switchgear according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the contact end portion (319) extends into the field coil (309) when the switchgear is fully open.   4. electrical switchgear according to claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein the first contact (312) is pivoted at a point (313) spaced from the field coil axis.     5 electrical switchgear according to any preceding claim, wherein the first contact (312) is a cranked arm which is pivoted at an end thereof remote from said end portion (319).   6. electrical   switchgear    according to any preceding claim, further comprising a preferably annular ferromagnetic member (451) is disposed at least partly within the field coil (409) to concentrate the magnetic field produced by the latter.   7. electrical switchgea.r according to claim 6, wherein the arcing electrode (424) is tubular and ha.s the ferromagnetic member (451) disposed therein.   8. electrical switchgear according to any preceding claim wherein the field coil (9) is connected to the second contact (7) such that during opening of the switchgear an are is first drawn between the first contact (12) and the second contact (7), and is then transferred from the second contact (7) to the arcing electrode (24).   9. electrical switchgear according to claim 9, wherein a ferromagnetic yoke (452) is associated with the second contact (407) to assist in positioning the initial are on the contact end portion (419).     10. electrical   switchgear    according to any one of claims 1 to 7   wherein    the first contact (612) engares the arcing electrode (624) before disengaging from the second contact (607) during opening of the switchgear.   11. electrical   switchgear    according to any preceding claim wherein the field coil (9) is composed of a selfsupporting strip of conducting material arranged in a spiral, an outer end of the spiral being attached to mounting means (8) and an inner end thereof mounting the arcing electrode (24).   12. electrical switchgear according to any preceding claim, wherein the arcing electrode (24) is in the form of a tubular member about the outside of which the turns of the field coil (9) run.   13. electrical switchgear according to claim 12, wherein the tubular member has a. flange (340) which faces the first contact (312).   14. .   electrical    switchgear according to claim 12 or 13,   wherein    the tubular member has an internal annular projection (341) along which the rotating arc runs.   15. electrical switchegar according to any preceding  claim, including two switches (201a, 201b) each of which has respective first and second contacts (212, 207), the switches sharing a common field coil (209) on opposite sides of which the first contacts are respectively disposed 16. electrical switchgear according to claim 15, wherein the arcing electrode (224) is a tubular member common to both switches (201a, 201b).   17. electrical switchgear according to claim 15 or 16, wherein an insulating member (231) is arranged transversely within the arcing electrode (224).   18. electrical switchgear according to any preceding claim, including a plurality of switches (201a, 201b, 201c) each having respective first and second contacts (212, 207), the second contacts (207) being mounted on a common insulating support (232).   19. electrical switchgear according to claim 18, including three switches (201a, 201b, 201c) and two field coils (209), one of the field coils being shared.between two of the switches (201a, 201b).   20. electrical switchgear according to claim 18, including four switches and two field coils, each field coil being common to a respective pair of the switches.      21. electrical switchgear according to any one of claims 1 to 15, including a plurality of switches (lola, 101b, 101c) each ha.ving a resnective field coil (109) and a respective arcing electrode (124), the   switches    being disposed substantially on a common axis (127) with the field coils (109) mutually staggered transversely of said axis.   22.   electrical    switchgear according to   claim    21, including three   switches    (101a, 101b, lolc) whose associated field coils (109) a.re disposed in a triangular array.   23. electrical switchgear according to any preceding claim wherein the electrically insulating fluid is a highly insulating gas, proferably sulphur hexafluoride.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
