<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0003184
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19790725
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
G05D-11/00 B05B-7/24 G05D-11/03 B05B-7/28 B01J-4/02 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
apparatus for injecting metered quantities of fluid into a flowing stream of liquid.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
daniels raymond rus <sep>scheid norman wus  <sep>daniels, raymond r.<sep>scheid, norman w.<sep>daniels, raymond r.1850 kendall driveclearwater floridaus<sep>scheid, norman w.1856 kendall driveclearwater floridaus<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
daniels raymond r<sep>daniels, raymond r.<sep>daniels, raymond r.1850 kendall driveclearwater floridaus<sep>scheid, norman w.1856 kendall driveclearwater floridaus<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a fluid injection assembly of a type designed to inject  fluid into a flowing stream of liquid at a predetermined  adjustable rate without the assistance of an outside power  source other than the pressure of the flowing liquid itself.   the assembly includes a casing (12) having the fluid (36) to  be injected disposed therein and at least partially contained  by a flexible membrane (26).  liquid from the flowing stream  (38) is partially disposed in fluid communication with the  interior of the casing so as to flow in surrounding relation to  a portion of the flexible membrane whereby pressure  thereon will aid in dispensing the injection fluid therefrom.   an open end of the dispensing line (80) for the injection fluid  is disposed within the flowing stream (38) so as to create a  negative pressure further adding in removal of the fluid from  within the casing.  a liquid flow rate meter (48) is provided so  as to give a constant visual indication of the rate of flow of  the liquid into which it is desired to inject the fluid.  a  similarly constructed fluid injection meter (88, 90, 92, 94) is  provided so as to permit visual observation of the rate of  fluid injection.  a dispensing valve (86) is provided to allow  regulation of the rate of injection of fluid into the flowing  stream of liquid.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
apparatus for ihtjecting metered qual#iti#s of druid ii2to a flowi¯iig stre2gbi of liquid field of the invention this invention relates to a fluid injection assembly designed to be used in combination with a flowing stream of liquid whereby metered quantities of a fluid may be injected into the flowing stream. means are provided for observing both the rate of flow of the flowing stream and the rate of injection of the fluid, and, furthermore, for varying the rate of fluid injection with regard to the flow rate of the flowing stream. description of the prior art chemical and fluid injection systems of various types are known and utilized in numerous applications. viore specifically, such prior art systems are utilized for the injection of various types of chemicals into bodies of water or other liquids wherein the injection of such chemicals occurs over a predetermined period of time and at a relatively consistent rate. such applications include, but are obviously not limited to, chemical injection for the purpose of purification of drinking water, treatment of water with fertilizers, pesticides, etc., for agricultural purposes, and the injection of fertilizers and distribution of pesticides for other varied applications of domestic and commercial agricultural purposes. another application of such an injection system involves the fluid dispensing of various food products in individual doses such as coin or demand activated vending machines used to dispense various types of liquid foodstuffs. as stated above, numerous types of prior art or conventional injection assembly structures are known. however, it has frequently been found that the performance and operating characteristics of such prior art devices are less than desirable and in some cases are ineffective or inefficient. another problem associated with the use of such injection assemblies involves the necessityfbr use of an outside power source to operate an activating mechanism such as a pump, or the like, for the material being injected. it should be obvious that such auxiliary or supplementary power forms add both to the expense and maintenance service attributable to these prior art devices. two exemplar prior art devices are shown in u.s. patent no. 2,618,510 to mills and u.s. patent no. 3,187,769, to nolowell, et al. both of these prior art devices basically depend upon the flow rate of the primary liquid, such as water, to regulate the injection rate of the treatment fluid. however, it is well known that the actual rate of flow of the liquid into which chemicals are to be injected may vary from time to time. accordingly, as the flow rate of the liquid varies, so will the injection rate of the treatment fluid. this will necessarily result in dispensed concentrations of varying strength. accordingly, there is an obvious and recognized need for a fluid injection assembly which is capable of wide and varied applications and which comprises a structure which is relatively maintenance free and relatively unsophisticated, thereby decreasing the cost of initial purchase and the time and money consumed in maintaining the assembly. such a structure
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims    1.   v    fluid injection assembly of the type primarily designed to add predetermined amounts of fluid to a flowing stream of liquid, said fluid injection assembly comprising: casing means; conduit means configured to define the path of travel of the liquid, said conduit means comprising a liquid inlet disposed in liquid   communicsting    relation to the interior of said casing means and further comprising liquid flow rate metering means operatively disposed along said conduit means whereby the quantity of liquid defining said flowing stream may be observed; fluid supply means mounted on the interior of said casing means said fluid supply means being at least partially surrounded by the liquid on the interior of said   casing    means;  and dispensing means mounted in   fluid-co¯=:ni-      cawing    relation between said fluid supply means and the liquid flowing within said conduit means downstream of said   liquid    flow rate   meterint    means, said dispensing means comprising adjustable valve means mounted in   flow-reguisting    relation to fluid exiting said fluid supply means for injection into the liquid flowing within said   conduit    means,   whereby    the quantity of fluid  injected into the liquid may be regulated in accord with the flow rate of said flowing stream.    2. a fluid injection assembly as in claim 1 wherein said fluid supply means comprises a flexible membrane movably mounted within said casing means in segregating relation between said liquid inlet and said dispensing means, said flexible membrane being dimensioned and configured to substantially   cormegond    to at least a portion of the interior of said casing means, whereby said   flexible    membrane is movably transferred on the interior of said casing means as fluid is dispensed therefrom.    3. a fluid injection assembly as in claim 1 wherein said adjustable valve means comprises adjustment means operatively connected to said valve means aid extending therefrom in   hand-manipulative    position relative to said fluid injection assembly.    4. a fluid injection assembly as in claim 1 further comprising chamber means connected to the outlet of said conduit means in receiving relation to said flowing stream and to the fluid from said fluid supply means, said chamber means being dimensioned and configured to provide mixing of fluid from said fluid supply means and liquid of said flowing stream.    5. a fluid injection assembly as in claim 1 wherein said liquid flow rate metering means comprises a transparent, tapered conduit section and a flow rate indicator movably disposed therein,  whereby displacement of said flow rate indicator within said conduit section is indicative of the rate of said flowing stream.    6. a fluid injection assembly as in claim 5 wherein said conduit section includes visible flow rate graduations placed thereon, whereby the rate of said flowing stream may be observed by comparing the position of said flow rate indicator to said graduations.    7. a fluid injection assembly as in claim 1 wherein said dispensing means further comprises fluid injection metering means operatively disposed in fluid-communicating relation between said adjustable valve means and said conduit means, whereby the quantity of fluid injected into said flowing stream may be observed and regulated in accord with the flow rate indicated by said liquid flow rate metering means.    8. a fluid injection assembly as in claim 7 wherein said fluid injection metering means comprises a transparent, tapered tube portion and a fluid injection indicator movably disposed therein, whereby displacement of said fluid injection indicator within said tube portion is indicative of the rate of fluid injection into said flowing stream.    9. a fluid injection assembly as in claim 8 wherein said tube portion includes visible injection rate indices placed thereadjacent, whereby the rate of fluid injection may be observed by comparing the position of said fluid injection indicator to said  indices.    10. a fluid injection assembly as in claim 7 wherein said fluid injection metering means comprises a transparent tube portion, one end of said tube portion being in fluid-communicating relation to said conduit means and the other end of said tube portion being in   fluid-communicating    relation to said fluid passing through said adjustable valve means.     11. a fluid injection assembly as in claim 10 wherein said fluid injection metering means further comprises a fluid conduit, one end of said fluid conduit being in   fluid-communicating    relation to said adjustable valve means, and a fluid drop tip disposed in interconnecting,   fluid-communicating    relation between the other end of said fluid conduit and said other end of said tube portion, whereby the number of drops of said fluid being injected into said flowing stream per time increment may be observed.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
