<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0017284
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19801015
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
C07C-49/00 B01J-27/00 C07C-49/20 C07C-67/00 C07C-51/09 C07B-61/00 C07C-45/67 C07C-45/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
preparation of unsaturated ketones
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
shell int researchnl<sep>shell internationale research maatschappij b.v.<sep>shell internationale research maatschappij b.v. carel van bylandtlaan 30nl-2596 hr den haagnl <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
de jong aaldert johannesnl<sep>van seters antonius johannes cnl<sep>de jong, aaldert johannes<sep>van seters, antonius johannes cornelis<sep>de jong, aaldert johannesbadhuisweg 3nl-1031 cm amsterdamnl<sep>van seters, antonius johannes cornelisbadhuisweg 3nl-1031 cm amsterdamnl<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a process for the preparation of unsaturated ketones, in particular 5-hexen-2-one, by reacting a beta-keto ester and an allylhalide in the presence of an alkalimetal carbonate, and optionally a solvent, followed by hydrolysing the unsaturated keto ester obtained and decarboxylating the unsaturated keto acid formed. 
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
prrparation of unsaturated ketones the present invention relates to a process for the preparation of unsaturated ketones which are of interest as intermediates in the preparation of perfumes and/or vitamins. the present invention relates in particular to a process for the preparation of 5-hexen-2-one (allylacftone) it is known from japanese published patent application no. 77 25709 that allyl- and benzylacetones can be obtained by reacting alkylacetoacetates with allylic or benzylic halides in water in the presence of alkalimetal hydroxides followed by hydrolsis and decarboxylation. although the yields quoted are rather high the process suffers from the serious drawback that the final product has to be recovered using a steam-distillation step which is laborious and energy consuming. moreover, the reaction mixture comprises a high amount of water which also contains an additional amount of lithium hydroxide. it is further known from japanese published patent application no. 74 26605 that allylacetone can be prepared from acetone and allylchloride using a large molar excess of acetone (more than 10 moles per mole of allylchloride) in the presence of a substantial amount of caustic alkali (i.o - 3.0 mole) and a small amount of sodium iodide. in repeating the experiments it was found that the reaction product contains a substantial amount of the unwanted product mesityloxide as well as of higher condensation products up to an amount as high as fifteen times the amount of initially produced allylacetone. again, the high ratio of solvent/reagent required is highly undesirable in a commercial process. although the use of an anhydrous alkalimetal carbonate is known for alkylation reaction in general (see, for instance j.org.chem.,vol.43,no. 2h,1978, pages 1682-h) it appears that virtually no reaction occurs when acetone and allylchloride are heated undertreflrlx conditions, eyen in the presence of a small amount of sodium iodide or a phase transfer catalyst. from dutch published patent application no. 72 16590 it is known that diketo esters; can be obtained by reacting beta-oxo esters and alph-haloketones in solution in the presence of an alkalimetal carbonate and/or a tertiary gamine. however, even when using the rather reactive alpha-haloketones large amounts of solvents are still required. it has now been found that unsaturated ketones, and in particular 5-hexen-2-one can be prepared by reacting a beta-keto ester and an allylhalide in the presence of an alkali metal carbonate, optionally in the presence of a solvent, followed by hydrolysing the unsaturated keto ester obtained and decarboxylating the unsaturated keto acid formed. the present invention therefore relates to a process for the preparation of unsaturated ketones according to the general formula: emi2.1 wherein f 1 represents an alkyl, cycloalkly, aryl, alkyl or alkaryl group, and r2,r3 and f, each of which may be the same or different represent a hydrogen atom or an alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, aralkyl or alkaryl group or r3 and rh together represent a tetraor pentamethylene group, which comprises reacting a compound of the general formula: : emi2.2 wherein r1 has the meaning as defined hereinabove and r represents an alkyl group or a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims   1. a process for the preparation of unsaturated ketones according to the general formula: emi11.1       wherein   r1    represents an alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, aralkyl or alkaryl group, and   r2,r3    and   r4,    each of which may be the same or different, represent a hydrogen atom or an alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, aralkyl or alkaryl group or   r3    and   r   together represent a tetra- or pentamethylene group, which comprises reacting a compound of the general formula; emi11.2       wherein   r1    has the meaning as defined hereinabove and r represents an alkyl group or a cycloalkyl group, with a compound according to the general formula: :  r3 r2  c = c - ch2x    r4    (iii) wherein r2,   r3    and   rh    have the meanings as defined hereinabove and x represents a chlorine, bromine or iodine moiety, in the presence of an alkalimetal carbonate followed by hydrolysing the unsaturated keto ester obtained and decarboxylating the unsaturated keto acid formed.   2. a process according to claim   1    in which a compound according to the general formula i is prepared by reacting a compound according to the general formula ii in which   r1    represents an alkyl group of up to 10 carbon atoms or a cycloalkyl group having of from 5 to 7 carbon atoms or an aryl,   alkyl    or alkaryl group of up to 10 carbon atoms and r represents a linear or branched alkyl group of up to 10 carbon atoms or a  cycloalkyl group of from 5 to 7 carbon atoms, with a compound according to the general formula iii wherein   r2,r3    and r4 each of which may be the same or different, represent a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group of up to 10 carbon atoms, or a cycloalkyl group of from 5 to 7 carbon atoms or an aryl, aralkyl group of up to 10 carbon atoms and x represents a chlorine,  bromine or iodide moiety in the presence of an alkalimetal carbonate followed by hydrolysing the unsaturated keto ester obtained and decarboxylating the unsaturated keto acid formed.   3. a process according to claim 2 in which a compound according to the general formula i is prepared by reacting a compound according to the general formula ii in which   f1    represents an alkyl group of up to 4 carbon atoms, for instance a methyl-, ethyl-, or isopropyl group, and r represents a linear or branched alkyl group of up to 6 carbon atoms, for instance a methyl, ethyl or isobutyl group, with a compound according to the general formula iii in which r2,r3 and   r4,    each of which may be the same or different, represent a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group of up to 6 carbon atoms, such as a methyl, ethyl- or isopropyl group, and x represents a chlorine moiety in the presence of sodium and/or potassium carbonate and hydrolysing the unsaturated keto ester obtained and decarboxylating the unsaturated keto acid formed.   h. a process according to claim 3 in which 5-hexen-2-one is prepared by reacting allylchloride and (m)ethyl-3-oxo-butanoate in the presence of potassium carbonate followed by hydrolysing the product 2-acetyl-penten-5-oate which is then   decarboxylated    5. a process according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein use is made of allylchloride as the compound according to the general formula iii.   6. a process according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the ratio between the starting compounds according to the general formulae ii and iii is between   1:1    and 10:1,  in particular between   1:1    and   5;].      7. a process according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the alkalimetal carbonate used is potassium carbonate.   8. a process according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the alkalimetal carbonate and the compound according to the general formula iii are used in a molar ratio of at least 3, preferably between 1:1 and 2:1.   9. a process according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the alkalimetal carbonate is used in particles of which the largest diameter is smaller than 0.2 mm.   10. a process according to any one of the preceding claims, which comprises carrying out the reaction in the presence of a solvent.      11.    a process according to claim   10,    wherein a ketone, preferably acetone or an aromatic compound, preferably toluene, is used as the solvent.    12. a process according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein a reaction temperature is applied between   50 c    and 1000c.   13. a process according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein a small amount of an inorganic iodide, preferably sodium iodide, is also present in the reaction mixture.      ih.    a process according to any one of claims   3-32,    wherein the process is carried out in the additional presence of a phase transfer catalyst.      35.    a process according to claim   34,    wherein the phase transfer catalyst applied is a tetraalkylammonium halide, preferably tetramethylammonium chloride or a   trialkylbenzylammonium    halide, such as trimethylammonium chloride.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
