<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0011950
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800611
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
A61N-1/372 A61N-1/362 <main>A61N-1/36</main> 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
body stimulator pulse generator.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
medtronic incus<sep>medtronic, inc.<sep>medtronic, inc.3055 old highway eightminneapolis minnesota 55440us <sep>medtronic, inc.<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
hartlaub jerome t<sep>mcdonald ray s  <sep>rossing martin a<sep>thompson david l<sep>hartlaub, jerome t.<sep>mcdonald, ray s.<sep>rossing, martin a.<sep>thompson, david l.<sep>hartlaub, jerome t.2133 erin courtnew brighton minnesota 55112us<sep>mcdonald, ray s.2241 marion streetst. paul minnesota 55113us<sep>rossing, martin a.15610 erkium street n.w.anoka minnesota 55303us<sep>thompson, david l.1660 onondaga streetfridley minnesota 55432us<sep>hartlaub, jerome t.<sep>mcdonald, ray s.<sep>rossing, martin a.<sep>thompson, david l. <sep>hartlaub, jerome t. 2133 erin court new brighton minnesota 55112us<sep>mcdonald, ray s.2241 marion streetst. paul minnesota 55113us<sep>rossing, martin a.15610 erkium street n.w.anoka minnesota 55303us<sep>thompson, david l.1660 onondaga streetfridley minnesota 55432us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a programmable medical device, e. g.  a cardiac  pacemaker, utilizes digital circuitry 40 for controlling the pro­ vision of cardiac stimulating pulses and analog circuitry 42 for  providing clocks, an output circuit and heart activity sensing.   digital circuit 40 includes a memory in which may be prog­ rammed on a permanent or temporary basis from an external  programmer control information relating to rate, pulse width,  pulse amplitude, refractory period, sense amplifier sensitivity  and the mode of operation desired.  in addition the output can  be inhibited or a threshold margin test can be performed in  which a reduced energy output pulse is provided to check if  heart capture is lost.  the pacemaker can operate in a hys­ teresis mode and provides a high rate limit which can how­ ever be exceeded by programming.  the pacemaker further  includes means for signaling the acceptance of a program­ ming signal and means to rest the program acceptance circuit  if extraneous signals are detected as programming signals.   the acceptance circuit checks for the receipt of the proper  number of signals within a given time, for an access code and  correct parity.  timing is by means of a crystal oscillator and a  voltage controlled oscillator controls pulse width to obtain  energy compensation with varying battery voltage.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
body stimulator pulse generator this invention relates to a body stimulator pulse generator, such as an implantable cardiac pacemaker capable of being programmed in a variety of different states. the art of implantable cardiac pacemakers was first disclosed by greatbatch in united states patent 3,057,356 entitled "medical cardiac pacemaker", which issued in 1962. the device disclosed by greatbatch included a relatively simple relaxation oscillator that generated eiec- trical pulses at a fixed rate. these pulses were applied to the heart through a lead consisting of a conductor wire and an electrode to cause the heart to contract each time a pulse occurred. since 1962, many improvements to cardiac pacemakers have occurred. these improvements include increased sophistication to the circuitry, including the inclusion of a sense amplifier to interact with the oscillator in providing stimulating pulses only when needed (the demand pacemaker), features to improve the reliability and longevity of pacemakers, improved packaging techniques, better power sources and improved leads and conductors. another improvement which has occurred since greatbatch first disclosed the implantable cardiac pacemaker is means to allow the pacemaker to be reprogrammed after it has been implanted. in unite states patent 3,805,796 in the name of reese terry, jr. et al, entitled "implantable cardiac pacer having adjustable operating parameters", which issued in 1974, circuitry is disclosed to allow the rate of the pacemaker to be noninvasively changed after it has been implanted. the rate varies in response to the number of times a magnetically operable reed switch is closed. the terry et al device operates by counting the x number of times the reed switch is closed and storing that count in a binary counter. each stage of the counter is connected to either engage or bypass one resistor in a serially connected resistor chain, which chain is a part of the rc time constant controlling the pacemaker rate. the concept of the terry et al device has been improved upon by the apparatus shown in united states patent 4,066,086 in the name of john m. adams et al, entitled "programmable body stimulator", which issued in 1978, and which discloses a programmable cardiac pacemaker that responds to the application of radio frequency (rf) pulse bursts while a magnetic field held in close proximity to a magnetically operated reed switch included within the pacemaker package holds the reed switch closed; in the adams et al circuit, again only the rate is programmable in response to the number of rf pulse bursts applied. the use of radio frequency signals to program cardiac pacemaker was first disclosed by wingrove in the united states patent ,833,005 entitled "compared count digitally controlled pacemakert which issued in 1974. the wingrove device was capable of having both the rate and pulse width prosr2rumeåa. however, no pacemaker has ever been described which is capable of having more than two parameters programmed or selected features or tests programmed on command. such a pacemaker could be called a universally programmable pacemaker. one area where cardiac pacing technology has lagged
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
   claims      1. a body stimulator pulse generator for providing stimulating pulses at a defined rate to terminal means adapted to being coupled to bodily tissue, comprising oscillator means for providing signals at said defined rate, said oscillator means including first rate limit means to prevent said oscillator signals from exceeding a first upper rate; and output means responsive to said oscillator signals, for providing said stimulating pulses, said output means including second rate limit means to prevent said oscillator signals from exceeding a second upper rate.   2. a stimulator pulse generator as claimed in claim 1 wherein said second rate limit means provides a signal to said first rate limit means; and wherein said first rate limit means responds to said second rate limit means signal by preventing oscillator pulses from being provided at a rate exceeding the lower of said first and second upper   rates    3. a stimulator pulse generator as claimed in claim 1 or 2 wherein said oscillator means includes means to negate prevention effects of said first and second rate limit means whenever it is desired to provide stimulating pulses at a rate exceeding said first and second upper rates.   4. a body stimulator pulse generator for providing stimulating pulses to output terminals adapted to being electrically coupled to body tissue, said pulse generator comprising: clock means for providing a series of clock pulses; counter means for counting said clock pulses; first decoding means responsive to said counter means for providing a signal whenever said counter means reaches a first certain count, said first count relating to the  time between stimulating pulses; first bistable means for being set in response to said first decoding means signal; second decoding means responsive to said counter means for providing a signal whenever said counter means reaches a second certain count, said second certain count relating to the minimum acceptable time between stimulating pulses; second bistable means for being set in response to said second decoding means signal;  gate means responsive to said first and second bistable means for providing a signal when both said first and second bistable means are set; output means for providing said stimulating pulse in response to said gate means signal; and reset means for resetting said counter means, said first bistable means and said second bistable means in response to the provision of said stimulating pulse.   5. a stimulator pulse generator as claimed in claim 4 further including override means for providing a signal to enable said gate means to provide a signal whenever said first bistable means is set regardless of the state of said second bistable means, said override means signal only being provided when it is desired to provide stimulating pulses separated by a time period less than the time for said counter means to reach said second count.   6. a stimulator pulse generator as claimed in claim 5 wherein said gate means includes first and second gates, said first gate being responsive to said override means signal and said second bistable means for providing a signal whenever either said override signal is applied thereto or said second bistable means is set, and said second gate being responsive to said first bistable means being set and the signal from said first gate means for providing said gate means signal.   7. a stimulator pulse generator as claimed in claim 4, 5 or 6 wherein said output means includes rate limit  means and is arranged to provide said stimulating pulse at a rate not exceeding an upper rate, said rate limit means providing a signal after a certain time related to the time period of stimulating pulses provided at said upper rate; and wherein said rate limit means signal is applied to said gate means and said gate means provides said signal only after said rate limit means signal is applied thereto.   8. a stimulator pulse generator as claimed in claims 5 and 7 wherein said override means is arranged to provide a signal only when it is desired to provide stimulating pulses separated by a time period less than both said time for said counter means to reach said second count and said certain time.   9. a stimulator pulse generator as claimed in claim 8 wherein said gate means includes first, second and third gates, said first gate being responsive to said rate limit signal and said second bistable means being set for providing a signal when both said second bistable means is set and said rate limit signal is provided, said second gate being responsive to said first gate signal and said override means signal for providing a signal whenever either of the signals applied thereto are provided and said third gate being responsive to said first bistable means being set and to the second gate signal for providing said gate means signal.    10. a stimulator pulse generator as claimed in claim 5, 6, 8 or 9, or claims 5 and 7 wherein said override means includes switch means for closing a short circuit path from the output of said rate limit circuit to a predetermined voltage level to override said rate limit circuit.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
