<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0005322
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19791114
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
F16H-57/02 F16H-19/00 B62D-3/00 F16H-19/04 <main>F16H-57/02</main> B62D-3/12 B21D-51/16 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
rack and pinion gears, housings therefor and a method of manufacturing such housings.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
cam gears ltdgb<sep>cam gears limited<sep>cam gears limited45, wilbury way hitchinhertfordshire sg4 0tugb<sep>cam gears limited  <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
whitney john<sep>whitney, john<sep>whitney, john3 stuart streetaberdare mid-glamorgangb<sep>whitney, john<sep>whitney, john3 stuart streetaberdare mid-glamorgangb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a rack and pinion gear, a housing for such gear, and  a method of manufacturing such a housing.  the housing  is an assembly of two tubular members (1) and (2);  member (1) is for receiving the rack bar of the gear and  member (2) is for receiving the pinion.  each of the members  (1), (2) has in its side wall an aperture and these  members are mated and secured (by welding, brazing,  bonding or otherwise) one with the other with the two  apertures communicating with each other.  the communicating  apertures provide an opening through which the  rack and pinion can co-operate.  the tubular members (1,  2) can be formed by shaping from sheet material and during  such shaping a projection (4) can be erected from  the sheet material to form a chamber communicating with  the bore of its tubular member; the chamber can be used  to locate a bearing yoke or other support means for the  rack bar.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
description this invention relates to rack and pinion gears, to housings therefor and to a method of manufacturing such housing. more particularly the invention concerns a rack and pinion gear of the kind (hereinafter referred to as "the kind specified") comprising a housing; a rack bar in the housing and longitudinally displaceable relative thereto, and a pinion rotatably mounted in the housing and having its teeth engaging with the teeth of a rack carried by the rack bar so that upon rotation of the pinion the rack bar is displaced longitudinally through the housing. gear assemblies of the kind specified are well known, particularly in the art of vehicle steering, and ever increasing attempts are being made to reduce the cost of manufacture of such gears without detracting from their performance or reliability. an appreciable proportion of the cost of the gear can be attributed to the cost of manufacture of the housing - especially with conventional housings formed by machined castings or mouldings. to alleviate the high cost of housing manufacture it has hitherto been proposed, for example in our u.k. specification no. 1,422,122, to form the housing as an assembly of two or more pre-formed shell-like components which are assembled around the gear components and secured together to constitute a unitary housing. an object of the present invention is to provide a novel structure of housing for a rack and pinion gear of the kind specified by which the housing is susceptible to relatively inexpensive manufacture. according to the present invention there is provided a housing for a rack and pinion gear of the kind specified, said housing being an assembly comprising a first tubular member for receiving the rack bar and a second tubular member for receiving the pinion, each of said tubular members having an aperture in its side wall, and wherein said tubular members are mated and secured one with the other with the apertures communicating with each other to provide an opening within the housing through which the rack and pinion are intended to co-operate. further according to the present invention there is provided a method of manufacturing a housing for a rack and pinion gear of the kind specified which comprises providing a first tubular member with an aperture in its side wall, said member being intended to receive the rack bar; providing a second tubular member with an aperture in its side wall, said second tubular member being intended to receive the pinion; mating said tubular members one with the other and with the apertures communicating with each other to provide an opening within the housing through which the rack and pinion are intended to co-operate, and securing the mated tubular members one to the other. still further according to the present invention there is provided a housing when manufactured by the method specified in the immediately preceding paragraph. the invention also provides a rack and pinion gear of the kind specified and incorporating a housing as specified as being in accordance
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims   1. a housing for a rack and pinion gear of the kind specified, said housing being an assembly comprising a first tubular member (1) for receiving the rack bar and a second tubular member (2) for receiving the pinion, each of said tubular members (1, 2) having an aperture (6, 20) in its side wall, and wherein said tubular members are mated and secured one with the other with the apertures (6, 20) communicating with each other to provide an opening within the housing through which the rack and pinion are intended to co-operate.   2. a housing as claimed in claim 1 wherein said tubular members (1, 2) are mated and secured one with the other at an angular relationship   (s)    consistant with the desired angular relationship to be provided between the rack bar and the pinion.   3. a housing as claimed in either claim 1 or claim 2 in which at least one of the tubular members (1,2) is formed from sheet material (la, 2a) shaped and secured in the tubular form.   4. a housing as claimed in claim 3 in which at least one of the tubular members (1, 2) formed from sheet  material (1a, 2a) has a lateral projection or extension (4) formed in its side wall by shaping said sheet material and which projection or extension (4) forms a chamber communicating with the bore of that tubular member for receiving a component part associated with the rack and pinion gear.   5. a housing as claimed in claim 4 in which the lateral projection or extension (4) is provided in the side wall of the first tubular member (1) and provides a chamber for receiving bearing means by which the rack bar is to be supported in the first tubular member.   6. a housing as claimed in claim 5 in which the lateral projection or extension (4) is located in the side wall of the first tubular member (1) so that the chamber provided thereby is located substantially laterally opposite to the opening through which the rack and pinion are intended to co-operate and said chamber is for receiving bearing means for biasing the rack bar into engagement with the pinion.   7. a housing as claimed in any one of the preceding claims in which the second tubular member (2) has in its side wall seatings (24) for bearing means by which the pinion is to be rotatably mounted in the housing.   8. a housing as claimed in any one of the preceding claims in which the first tubular member (1) is of substantially triangular cross-section.   9. a housing as claimed in claim 8 when appendant to claim 4 in which the first tubular member (1) has a box-like lateral projection or extension (4) formed in its side wall.     10. a housing as claimed in any one of the preceding claims in which the second tubular member (2) is of substantially circular cross-section.   11. a method of manufacturing a housing for a rack and pinion gear of the kind specified which comprises providing a first tubular member (1) with an aperture (6) in its side wall, said member (1) being intended to receive the rack bar; providing a second tubular member (2) with an aperture (20) in its side wall, said second tubular member (2) being intended to receive the pinion; mating said tubular members (1, 2) one with the other and with the apertures (6, 20) communicating with each other to provide an opening within the housing through which the rack and pinion are intended to co-operate, and securing the mated tubular   members (1,    2) one to the other.   12. a method as claimed in claim 11 which comprises mating said tubular   members (1,    2) one with the other at an angular relationship   (  < )    consistant with the desired angular relationship to be provided between the rack bar and the pinion.   13. a method as claimed in either claim 11 or claim 12 which comprises shaping at least one of the tubular members (1, 2) from sheet material (la, 2a) and securing the sheet material in tubular form.   14. a method as claimed in claim 13 which comprises forming the aperture or apertures (6, 20) in the sheet material   (lea,    2a) prior to shaping said material into its tubular form.   15. a method as claimed in either claim 13 or claim 14  which comprises shaping the sheet material (la, 2a) during the manufacture of the or a tubular member therefrom to form in the side wall of that member (1, 2) a lateral projection or extension (4) which forms a chamber communicating with the bore of that tubular member for receiving a component part associated with the rack and pinion gear.    16. a method as claimed in claim 15 which comprises forming the first tubular member (1) by shaping from sheet material (1a) and erecting from said sheet material during said shaping a box-like projection (4) for the reception of bearing means by which the rack bar is to be supported in that tubular member (1).   17. a housing when manufactured by the method as claimed in any one of claims 11 to 16.   18. a rack and pinion gear of the kind specified and incorporating a housing as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 10 and 17 in which the rack bar of the gear is received in the first tubular member (1) relative to which it is longitudinally displaceable and the pinion is rotatably mounted within the second tubular member (2), and wherein the pinion engages with the rack of the rack bar through the opening in the housing provided by the communicating apertures (6, 20).  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
