<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0009835
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800416
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
E02D-29/14 <main>E02D-29/14</main> 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
a cover such as from metal, for a traffic road surface.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
raatjes egbertus sijbolt<sep>raatjes, e.s.<sep>raatjes, egbert sijboltsparrenlaan 93768 bg soestnl<sep>raatjes, e.s.<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
raatjes e s<sep>raatjes, e.s.<sep>raatjes, egbert sijboltsparrenlaan 93768 bg soestnl<sep>raatjes, e.s.  <sep>raatjes, egbert sijboltsparrenlaan 93768 bg soestnl<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a seat of rubber or the like (7) separates the facing sup­ port faces of the lid (3) and the frame (1) of the rectangular  cover.  this seat, which in the one case is attached to the  frame (1) and in the other case to the lid (3), is provided with  alternate cams (10) and recesses (11) corresponding to  recesses and cams of the parts, to which the seat is not  attached.  after displacement of the lid (3) in the frame (1), the  lid (3) is secured by these cams (10) and recesses (11).  to  counteract displacement in the secured position, a filling  piece (4) can be applied.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
a cover such as from metal, for a traffic road surface the invention relates a cover to be mounted i for instance a traffice road, such as from metal and having a seat from rubber or the like, with substantially reactangular cross section, which keeps the confronting support faces of lid and frame separated. in an embodiment of the cover the seat can be attached to the support face of the frame, which has a rectrlgular shape, with rectangular.opening and comprises, at the inwardly directed side, alternately mounted cams extending inwardly with respect to the enclosure face extending downwardly with respect to the support face of the frame and outwardly extending recesses. the matching lid comprises, at the enclosure face directed downwardly with respect to the support face thereof, mutual spaced outwardly extending cams such that in a determined position of the lid, this can be inserted in the frame or can be removed therefrom, but after shifting the lid in the direction of the longitudinal centre line thereof, over the dimension of the lid cam, the lid is secured in upward direction, i.e. it can not be lifted from the frame. to counteract longitudinal shift of the lid, in the secured condition, according to the invention a filling piece, of hard wear-resistant material can be applied, which can mask the free space of the frame opening. in another embodiment of the cover, of which the frame is rectangular with rectangular opening, the seat is attached to the support face of the rectangular lid and the seat comprises, at the outwardly directed side, alternately mounted cams extending outwardly with respect to the upwardly extending enclosure face of the lid and inwardly extending recesses. the molding frame comprises, at the enclosure face extending upwardly with respect to the support face thereof, mutually spaced cams such that in a determined position with respect to the frame the lid can be inserted therein or removed therefrom. after shifting of the lid in the direction of the longitudinal centreline thereof over a size of a seat cam, the lid is secured again in upward direction. by means of a filling piece displacement of the cover can be counteracted in which the filling piece can mask the free space of the frame opening. in a further embodiment of the cover, for instance of the second type, the lid can consist of a number of lid portions and at each end of the frame opening and possibly at larger values of the length thereof, between one set or various sets of lid portions, a filling piece can be used to counteract the shift of the lid portions, in their secured position, and to facilitate removal of the lid portions. the invention will be further elucidated on the basis of some embodiments shown in the drawing. fig. 1 is a drawing in perspective of the frame of a rectangular cover according to a first embodiment, in which the seat is attached to the frame. fig. la shows
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
   claims       1. a cover to be mounted in for instance a traffic road such as from metal, and having the seat of rubber or the like which is attached to the frame, or the lid respectively and comprises a substantially rectangular cross section, said seat at the inner or the outer side respectively having alternately arranged at the enclosure face extending downwardly with respect to the support face of the frame or upwardly with respect to the support face of the lid, inwardly or outwardly directed cams and inwardly or outwardly directed recesses and the lid or the frame respectively comprising at the enclosure face extending downwardly with respect to the support face or upwardly with respect to the support face, mutually space outwardly or inwardly directed cams, characterized in that the frame is rectangular and the seat is mounted at least at two opposite rectangular sides,  at the support face of the frame, the also rectangular lid, in the position in which the outwardly directed cams at the enclosure face extend downwardly with respect to the support face at the corresponding rectangular side, corresponding to the location of the recesses of the seat at the support face of the frame, can be inserted in the frame, and the lid, after longitudinal displacement over the size of a cover cam, is secured against vertical removal, or the frame is rectangular and the inwardly directed cams at the enclosure face extending upwardly with respect to the support face thereof, are arranged at at least two opposite rectangular sides, in which the also rectangular lid, in the position, in which the outwardly directed cams of the seat, at the corresponding rectangular sides,  at the support face of the lid correspond to the location of the portions of the enclosure face extending upwardly with respect to the support face of the frame, can be inserted in the frame and the lid, after longitudinal displacement over the size of a seat cam, is secured against vertical removal.    2. a cover according to claim 1, the seat being attached  to the support face of the lid and the lid, at two opposite longitudinal rectangular sides, at the enclosure face extending upwardly with respect to the support face, comprising inwardly directed cam characterized in that the lid comprises a number of identical lid portions (fig. 14).    3. a cover according to claim 2, characterized in that of each lid portion the support face, the seat attached thereto1 and the enclosure face extending upwardly and downwardly, are continued at the opposite, transverse rectangular-sides of the lid portion1 with in relation to the enclosure face extending upwardly with respect to the support face of the lid portion, outwardly directed cam and inwardly directed recesses, the outwardly directed cams at the one-transversely directed ractangular side extending further, and at the other transversely directed rectangular side extending less far outwardly than the seat cams at the longitudinal rectangular side (fig. 12a).     4. a cover according to claim 3, characterized in that only the support face, and the enclosure wall extending upwardly   with    respect thereto are preceded at a transverse rectangular side of the frame and the space between the lid portion in the vicinity of this rectangualr side and said rectangular side can be masked by means of a filling piece from ebonite or such a wear-resistant material, the side face at the side facing the lid portion, having a recess over the complete length for receiving seat cams at the confronting transverse rectangular side of the lid portion, furthermor a cam (52a) extending inwardly over the length of the upwardly directed enclosure face (5la) of this rectangular side of the frame being able to engage above a projection (53) mounted over the complete length of the confronting surface on the filling piece.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
