<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0016266
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19801001
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
F24J-2/08 F24J-2/10 F24J-2/06 F24J-2/24 F24J-2/04 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
solar energy collector.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
suntron energy systems ltdca<sep>suntron energy systems ltd.<sep>suntron energy systems ltd.390 denison streetmarkham ontario l3r 1b9ca<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
wilson wilfred williamca<sep>wilson, wilfred william<sep>wilson, wilfred william95 thorncliffe park drive apartment 4106toronto, ontario, m4h 1l7ca<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a solar energy collector including a chamber sealed  against communication with the atmosphere and including a  wall (22) presenting a reflective inner surface (23) and a light  energy transparent wall (34) defining a window for the  chamber, the chamber enclosing a heat exchanger (48) hav­ ing an extended fluid conduit formation with an inlet (48) at  one end and an outlet (50) at the other for establishing fluid  communication therewith from without the sealed chamber,  the extended conduit formation including a plurality of con­ duit portions bearing a surface coating capable, upon  impingement, of transforming light energy to heat energy and  so spaced apart as to define a plurality of unobstructed paths  extending from the window to the reflective inner surface (23)  whereby light energy can be directed along reflected paths so  as to impinge upon those portions of the surface coatings  remote from the window; and a separate light energy trans­ forming heating source for the sealed chamber.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
"solar energy collector" nature of the invention. this invention relates to improvements in solar energy collectors and particularly to collectors in which light energy is adapted to be transformed into heat energy on impingement of such light energy upon a suitably coated target, which target includes a heat conductive conduit system or heat exchanger or the like which system uses a fluid medium for conducting generated heat energy away from such impingement areas to other stations or systems. more particularly, this invention relates to improvements in solar energy collectors in which the aforementioned conduit system or heat exchanger is enclosed within a sealed chamber provided with a gaseous medium or an atmosphere, and in which the sealed chamber is provided with a suitable window permeable to light energy or radiation and with an internal reflector and the heat conductive conduit or heat exchanger so located therewithin as to provide a focal point for the impingement thereupon of light energy or radiation either directly or by reflection of same. background according to earlier concepts a solar energy collec- tor can be fashioned by supporting a suitably coated metallic conduit section of a heat exchanger to extend along the focal line of a parabolically shaped reflective sheet. the parabolic form will substantially focus a major portion of the sun's'radiation directed onto such reflective sheet upon the extended coated conduit section. however, with this proposal it is necessary for the parabolic reflector to closely track the sun in its apparent path, for otherwise, the line of focus of such parabolic reflective surface will shift and light will no longer impinge with such intensity upon the coated surfaces. where the solar energy collector is tracking the sun then continuously operating tracking equipment must be provided which is a costly addition to the construction and operation of such unit. objects of the invention it is the principal object of this invention to provide an improved simplified solar energy collector of the type mentioned which has increased capability than heretofore of transforming available light energy to heat energy and extracting same for useful purposes and which operates with or without close tracking of the sun's apparent path. more particularly, it is the object of this invention to maximize impingement of available light energy upon the coated regions of the target or the heat exchanger over the range of positions assigned to such collector to thereby achieve a higher level of efficiency in recovery of useful heat energy overall. it is still another object to utilize a greater proportion of the available radiation to heat the atmosphere entrapped within the enclosure whereby conduction of the transformed heat energy to the heat exchanger is enhanced and in that manner promote in even greater degree the overall efficiency of the operation. it is also an important object to provide a solar energy collector which is readily fabricated and maintained whereby manufacturing the costs can be kept at a minimum and the likelihood of adoption by both the commercial market
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims      1    in a solar energy collector a chamber inclosing a   suitable    gaseous medium and sealed against communication   with    the atmosphere including a wall presenting a reflective inner surface and a wall permeable to light energy defining a window for said chamber, said first   mentoned    wall being arranged in spaced relation to said   window.    a heat exchanger mounted within said sealed   chamber    and located between said first mentioned wall and said window, said heat exchanger having an extended fluid conduit formation with an inlet at one end and an outlet therefor at the other end, means associated with said inlet and said outlet respectively for establishing fluid communication therewith from without said sealed chamber,  said extended conduit formation including a plurality of heat conductive conduit portions bearing surface coatings capable of transforming impinged light energy to heat energy, said conduit portions being arranged in spaced apart relation to define a plurality of unobstructed paths extending from said second mentioned wall to said first mentioned wall whereby light energy directed along said paths can be reflected from said reflective inner surface and impinge upon those portions of said surface coatings remote from said window.   2. a solar energy collector according to claim 1 in which separate chamber heating means are provided including light energy focusing means having a focal point lying within said sealed chamber and target heat dissipating means located within said chamber in the region of said target heat dissipating means bearing a surface coating capable of transforming impinged light energy to heat energy.     3. a solar energy collector according to claim 1 in which said first mentioned wall has a substantially uniform convex portion located substantially centrally thereof whereby light energy reflected from said centrally located convex portion is scattered.   4. a solar energy collector according to claim 3 in which said window has a substantially uniform correspondingly convex portion located centrally thereof and overlying the convex portion of said first mentioned wall with said window and first mentioned wall arranged in   subs tan-    tially uniform spaced apart relation.   5. a solar energy collector according to claim 4 in which said respective convex portions of said first mentioned wall and window are of part hollow-cylindricalconfiguration.   6. a solar energy collector according to claims 1 to 5 inclusive in which said heat conductive conduit sections are supported in substantially parallel relation one to the other.   7. a solar energy collector according to claim 2 in which a plurality of separate chamber heating means are provided, each said light energy focusing means including a convex lens and said target heat   dissipatidg    means including a thin metallic disc arranged substantially at right angles to the principle axis of the lens and derived from copper or other high heat conductive metal or composite having similar properties.    8. a solar energy collector according to any preceding claim in which said heat   conductive.conduit    sections and said target heat dissipating means are provided with blackened surface coatings.     9. a solar energy collector according to any preceding claim in which said conduit portions bearing surface coatings are arranged in spaced apart generally   side-b-side    relation and so layered one upon the other in   offset    relation as to provide a bank of conduit portions having a plurality of unobstructed paths therethrough.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
