<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0007136
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800123
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
A23K-1/22 A23K-1/12 A23K-1/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
cattle fodder from partially hydrolyzed ligno-cellulosic materials and urea and process of manufacture.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
battelle memorial institutech<sep>solagro sach<sep>battelle memorial institute<sep>solagro s.a.<sep>battelle memorial institute7 route de drizech-1227 carouge/genèvech<sep>solagro s.a.rue du prince albert 33b-1050 bruxellesbe<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
armanet jean-michelch <sep>regnault alainfr <sep>sachetto jean-pierre fr<sep>tournier hervefr<sep>armanet, jean-michel<sep>regnault, alain<sep>sachetto, jean-pierre<sep>tournier, herve<sep>armanet, jean-michel8, rue des bossonsch-1213 onexch<sep>regnault, alainvillard-tacon par ornexf-01210 ferney-voltairefr<sep>sachetto, jean-pierrel'escalade rue de savoie 3f-74160 st julien en genevoisfr<sep>tournier, hervé "le riondet"f-74520 valleiryfr<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a fodder for ruminant containing prehydrolyzed ligno-­ cellulosic materials and urea.  most of this urea is under nit­ rogen slow-reiease form.  the fodder is prepared by hydrolys­ ing, straw, bagasse or other ligno-cellulosic by - products with  diluted acid and, subsequently, condensing said prehydrol­ yzed material with urea.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
cattle @@@@@@ from partially hydrolyzed ligno-cellusosic materials and urea and process of manufacture the present invention concerns a ruminant fodder made from fibrous ligno-cellulosic substances such as straw, oat-chaff, corn stumps, husk, bagasse of sugar canes, etc..., this material having been subjected to partial acid hydrolysis, and urea. the invention also concerns a process for manufacturing this fodder. it is kmwn that, besides a certain proportion of mineral salts and extractable substances, the above lignosellulosic materials consist of a polymeric backbone the chemical structure of which consists of approximately 1/3 of cellulose, v3 of hemicellulose and i/3 of lignin. consequently, such materials nor mally provide very unsatisfactory fodders for ruminants because they are only poorly attacked, during digestion, by the saccharolytic micro-organisms present in the rumen of these animals. these drawbacks have been cured partially by subjecting the ligno-cellulosic materials to controlled hydrolysis with the result that a fraction thereof is converted to reducing sugars (directly assimilable, in principle) and that the insoluble fraction is rendered more accessible to digestion by the enzymes. thus, usp no 3.939.286 teaches a method for treating comminuted vegetal materials, such as wooden chips, various cereal straw, bagasse, etc... so as to improve their digestibility by ruminants. this method comprises treating a mixture of such materials and water with an acid at ph below 3 in the presence of a salt of iron or of manganese, then oxidizing the mass under heat and pressure, then hydrolyzing under the same conditions such as to convert at least one portion of the treated substances into saccharides and saccharic acids. according to another process (french patent no 2.264.489) the ligno-cellulosic material is treated under pressure up to 160 c with relatively concentrated solutions of acids such as h3po4, hcl, and h2904 so as to hydrolyze a significant portion of the cellulose moiety of the crude material and produce reducing sugars. it is knawn, on the other hand, that oellulosic products cannot, by themselves, entirely fulfill the feeding requirements of cattle because the latter need, as do other living beings, nitrogen containing materials for building up their organic texture. therefore, in addition to polysaccharide fodders, cattle is fed with a significant proportion of protein materials such as oilseed cakes, cereals, edible meals, etc... of which a large fraction could be used for human consumption. this concept is therefore in contradiction with the objective of ;proving the cereal supply intended for poor and undevelopped countries. hence, it has been sought to replace the plant protein normally given to cattle by simple nitrogen compcunds, not edible by man, such as ammonium salts, urea and condensation products between arrrtx'ia and carbohydrates. conventionally, urea is snmply mixed with the cattle fodder but this method has a serious drawback. thus, in the stomach of ruminants urea is rapidly decomposed by urease with liberation of artitalia. this ammonia is normally used by the microorganisms present in the digestive tract for synthesizing the amino-acids which are the precursors of further living matter. however, in the case
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims    1. cattle fodder, based on acid partly hydrolyzed   ligno-cellu-    losic materials of which the hydrolysis level   correspons    to the formation, by kg of the starting material, of at least one gram mole of aldoses, in the form of reducing mono- and oligo-saccha- rides, and which   oontains,    by kg of the starting material, at least two moles of urea of which a quantity is bound, in the form of   ureidaaldoses    to such reducing saccharides, in the proportion of one   molecule    of urea per aldehyde function of said saccharides,  characterized ty the fact that at least one portion of the remaining urea not bound to the reducing sugars fran hydrolysis is present under a form that is still   not    instantaneously degradable by urease and that has a nitrogen slow-release capacity when used as feedstuff for ruminants.    2. the fodder of claim 1, the degree of hydrolysis of which, calculated on the basis of the theoretical amount of    nt    and oligo-saccharides formed from 1 kg of dry starting   ligrecellulo-    sic material, corresponds to about 1 to 2 mole of reducing sugars, which   oooprises,    still per kg of said starting material,   from 2    to about 5 mole of urea of which 1 to 2 mole are bound   t: >     said reducing sugars as ureido-aldoses, 1 to 2 mole are linked to the insoluble portion of the ligno-cellulosic material and are not instantly degradable by urease and the residue of which, in case there is such a residual urea, is under the form of free urea or as the salt thereof with the acid having been used for   hydrolysis.       3. a process for manufacturing the fodder of claim 1 which   comprises:     a) contacting the   ligno-cellulosic    material with a diluted aqueous acid and heating for hydrolyzing at least the major part of the   hemi-cellulcxsic    portion thereof into reducing saccharides and  b) contacting said material, thus prehydrolyzed and which retains, besides the formed saccharides, a portion of the hydrolyzing acid, with a urea solution, heating the whole mixture such as to bind said urea, because of the catalytic effect of the acid  present,   on    one side on the insoluble fibers of the prehydrolyzed material, and on another side by   condensation    and formation of gly   oosylureas    with the reducing saccharides.    4. the process of claim 3, wherein  al)   me    treats the ligno-cellulosic material, under   heating,    with a diluted acid   solution    containing reducing sugars, the latter being the sane sugars previously formed by hydrolysis of a previous batch of said material,  a2) one partly drains the prehydrolyzed material but without drying it   wletely      such    as to retain, impregnated within the fibers, a part of the hydrolyzing solution,  b) one contacts the wet material with a concentrated aqueous urea solution and one heats the   whole    so as to link at least 3 mole of urea per kg of said starting ligno-cellulosic material.    5. the process of claim 4, wherein the sugar concentration of the hydrolysis solution is adapted for keeping impregnated within the solid material after draining said   material    having been   sb    jected to hydrolysis, a quantity of sugars substantially equal to that which has just been liberated during said hydrolysis operation.    6.   the    process of claim 5, which   comprises    operating in a semi-continuous   fashion,    the hydrolyzing liquid being replenished with acid solution after draining fran the batch of hydrolyzed material, and being again contacted with a fresh batch of material to be hydrolyzed.    7. the process of claim 4, which   wprises    heating   24    hrs to 90-130  c to effect the prehydrolysis and heating 2-5 hrs to   7 > 100     c to effect the   condensation    with urea.      8. the      process    of claim 3,   which    comprises effecting the hydrolysis by injecting water-steam loaded with   acid    into the   ligno-    cellulosic material, the quantity of said steam being calculated for having little   or    no liquid to form by   dndensation-and    for causing the soluble reducing saccharides thus formed to stay- absorbed in the fibers of the prehydrolyzed material.    9. the process of claim 3, which comprises effecting the prehydrolysis ty impregnating the   ligrecellulosic    starting material with diluted acid; heating the impregnated matter by directly injecting steam therein, then adding the urea to the condensation  liquid produced during hydrolysis, and heating the combined solids and liquid while distilling off the excess of water, so as to obtain a solid fibrous product, the soluble   wounds    remaining adsorbed thereto.    10. the process of claim 9, in which the acid is diluted aqueous hc1 and in which the step of condensation with urea is carried   out    under   distillation    conditions such that the hc1 is progressively eliminated by evaporation so as to minimize possible acid   overconcentration    toward the end of the condensation stage.      1l.    the   prooess    of claim 9, in which after the hydrolysis step is   completed,    part of the   acid    having served for hydrolysis and possibly being in excess for effecting the condensation with urea is partially neutralized with a base, either before the   con-      sensation    with urea is undertaken or at sane stage during said   con-    densation step.    12. the process of claim 11, in which the partial neutralization is effected when the residual content of water impregnated in the fiber is about   20-30%.       13. the process of claim 9, wherein subsequent to heating an distilling off he excess of water, the obtained fodder is   oun-    pletely   neutralized    with alkali in order to   iitprove    palatability to cattle.     14. the process of claim 9, which    prises    inserting a pelletizing step between the hydrolysis step and the heating step for fixing the urea, such pelletizing step consisting in rotating the prehydrolyzed material still wetted with the acid and having the urea   inoorporated    therein in a rotatable drum until pellets of the prehydrolyzed material impregnated with diluted acid and urea are formed.    15. the fodder of claim 1, wherein the   ligrecellulosic    me terial is selected fran cereal straw and chaff, corn husks, rice hulls, sugar cane bagasse, wooden refuses and other vegetable refuses.    16. a fodder product as obtained fran any of the manufacturing   ettodiments    disclosed throughout the present specification and claims.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
