<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0013081
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800709
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B01D-1/00 F24F-3/14 F26B-3/04 F26B-3/02 F24F-3/12 <main>F26B-21/02</main> F26B-21/02 B01D-1/14 F26B-5/16 F26B-21/08 F26B-5/00 F26B-21/06 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
method of and apparatus for drying products with a closed gas stream and a desiccant liquid; and products prepared thereby.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
energiagazdalkodasi intezet hu  <sep>energiagazdalkodasi intezet<sep>energiagazdalkodasi intezet33-34, bem rakparth-1027 budapest iihu<sep>energiagazdalkodasi intezet<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
horvath andras<sep>sigmond emod<sep>szucs laszlo<sep>waermer gyorgy<sep>horvath, andras<sep>sigmond, emod<sep>szucs, laszlo<sep>waermer, gyorgy<sep>horváth, andrás43 koszta j. utcabudapest 1124hu<sep>sigmond, emöd12/b, maraközi-utcabudapest 1025hu<sep>szücs, lászlo43 koszta j. utcabudapest 1124hu<sep>waermer, györgy74, bartok béla-utbudapest 1113hu<sep>horvath, andras<sep>sigmond, emod<sep>szucs, laszlo<sep>waermer, gyorgy <sep>horváth, andrás 43 koszta j. utca budapest 1124hu<sep>sigmond, emöd12/b, maraközi-utcabudapest 1025hu<sep>szücs, lászlo43 koszta j. utcabudapest 1124hu<sep>waermer, györgy74, bartok béla-utbudapest 1113hu<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a method of and apparatus for drying products with a gas  stream passing the product to extract moisture therefrom and  a contacting device (43) producing at least one desiccant  liquid layer (1) in the vicinity of the product (50) to be dried,  which liquid layer removes moisture from the gas.  the gas  stream is bubbled through a substantially horizontal liquid  layer or can pass between liquid film conducting elements  (58).  the desiccant liquid is continuously regenerated in a  regenerator (150).  by moans of several partial gas streams  and a contacting device having more separated liquid film  modules, a counter-current type of drying is possible.  the  product to be dried can be heated to a predetermined temper­ ature by the desiccant liquid through the drying gas stream.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
method of and apparatus for drying products with a closed gas stream and a desiccant liquid; and products prepared thereby. this invention relates to a method of and an apparatus for drying products with a closed gas stream and with a desiccant (sorption) liquid reducing the moisture content of the gas stream; and to products prepared by said method or apparatus. a well-known method of drying products consists in that the material to be dried is brought into direct contact with some gas, in most oases with air unsaturated with moisture, this way the material gets drier, the gas more and more saturated with moisture. drying apparatuses in common use at present - especially the ones serving for drying a relatively big amount of produc ts - usually dry with heated air of small relative humidity, which is released into the atmosphere after the drying hab taken place. this open gas stream drying is accompanied by a significant loss of thermal energy, and it is unsatisfactory also because in some cases the products to be dried are heat-sensitive. it can also be disadvantageous beoause of producing air-pollution. it was precisely the heat-sensitivity of special products (medicines, gelatine, foodstuffs, etc.) which made drying with low e.g. ambient or sub-ambient) temperature gas necessary. the small relative humidity of low temperature gas, which is a prerequisite of effective drying of these kinds of products, oan be achieved through demini-shing the absolute humidity of the gas. therefore it has been auggested e.g. in u.s. patent no. 5t257,737 that the drying gas should be contacted with solid adsorbents which extract the moisture content of the gas. it has also been suggested e.g. in austrian patent no. 317,857 and in brutish patent no. 1 152.440 to use desiocant (hygroscopic) liquids (e.g. aqueous solutions of lithium chloride or ethylene glycol) to remove the moisture from a gas. a continuous regeneration of the drying gas in this manner makes a closed gas stream also applicable. the suggested solutions utilising a desiccant liquid cause the liquid to contact with the gas stream in sprayed or pulverized form, and the liquid particles carried away by gas stream are held back by a drip separator. such a system from the point of view of energetics is theoretically more favourable than the one working with heated air essentially because thermal loss caused by the releasing of the air into the atmosphere is omitted. still, up till now, closed gas circulation systems have only been used in case of special drying problems, and whenever it was possible with regard to the characteristics of the products to be dried, the open air stream method with heated air was applied. the reason for this is that the traditional type of closed gas circulating driers requires costly investment, the circulation of large amounts of gas is highly energy-consuming, and the desiccant liquid used for regneration is expensive; these factors result in high operating costs. it is the main object of the invention to provide a closed
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims  1. a method of drying products comprising the steps of   introd@@ing    the   product    to be dried into a drying compartment; continuously past circulatdng a drying gas stream so as to pause it to pass/ the product to be dried; contacting the drying gas stream with a   desiccant    liquid to remove moisture from the gas;  and regenerating the desiccant   liquid    by circulating at least a part of it through   regenerating    means which   remove    moisture therefrom characterized by producing at least one layer of the desiccant liquid in the vicinity of the product   being      in    the   drying    compartment , and   contcting    the   drying    gas   stream    with said at   least    one   desiccant      liquid      layer.       2, the method according to claim   k    characterized in that   said    at   least    one desiccant   liquid      after    is a substantially horizontal liquid layer, and said drying gas stream is bubbled through said substantially horizontal liquid layer.    3. the method   according      to      claim      1,      characterized    in that said at least one desiccant   liquid    layer is produced by causing the desiccant liquid to flow on liquid   film      conducting   elements,   and    'said contacting is   pergorme    by   casing      said      drying    gas   stream   to pass between said   liquid      fi'm    conducting elements,    4.      b      method    of   drying    products  <rti     id=40.42> comprising    the steps of introducing the product to be dried into a drying  compartment;   comt@@uously past    circulating a drying gas stream so as to cause it to pass/the product to be dried; contacting the drying gas stream with a desiccant liquid to remove   moisture    from the gas; and regenerating the desiccant liquid by   circulating    at least a part of it through regenerating means   which    removes   moisture    therefrom, characterized by bringing about a   heat    exchange between the desiccant liquid and the product to be dried so that the heat is transmitted by the drying gas stream between the desiccant liquid and the product to be dried.    5. the method according to claim   4,    characterized in that said heat exchange is performed by heating the desiccant   liquid    in the course of said regeneron so that the drying gas will be heated to a   predete@@ined    temperature by   contacting    the   desiccant    liquid   during    said gas circulation.    6. the method according to claim 5, characterized in that said predetermined temperature of the drying   ga@    is at least 40 c.    7. the method according to any   o@    claime 1 to 6,   @haracterized      ii      shat    said   desiccant      liquid    is a   desiccant    solution; said regenerating is performed by evaporating the desiccant solution; and the steam evaporated from the desiccant solution is at least partly condensed by the desiccant solution to be regenerated.    8. the method according to claim 7,   characte@@@@é    by that said evaporation is performed by multi-effect evaporation; and the steam evaporated during the first   @oiling      @f    the desiccant solution is at least partly     @ondensed    by the incoming desiccant solution to be regenerated.    9. the method   according    to claim 7, characterized in that said evaporation is performed by a multi-effect evaporation; and the steam evaporated during the last boiling of the desiccant solution is at   least    partly condensed by the incoming desiccant solution to be regenerated.    10. the method   recording    to claim 7,   characterized    in that said evaporation is performed by multi-stage flashing.    11. the method according to any of claims 7 to 10, characterized by   furthe@      comprising    the step of   cooling    the   desiccant    solution   after    said contacting and before said regenerating in dependence on the   cooling    of the desiccant solution during said   contact    so that the incoming desiccant   pollution    to be regenerated is of a predetermined temperature.    12. the method according to any of claims 4 to 6, characterized by further comprising the step of producing at least one layer   o@    the desiccant liquid   in    the   vicinity    of the product being in tne drying compartment, and   contacting    said gas stream   with    said at least one desiccant liquid layer.    13. the method according to any of claims 1 to 12, characterized in   b-hi;,t      said    continuous circulation of the drying gas stream is performed by conducting the drying gas stream   in    a path section between the product to be   dri@     and the desiccant liquid so that in said path section the  ratio of the maximum and minimum velocity of the drying gas stream is smaller than five to one and the change of direction of flow of   the      drying    gas stream is less than 30 degrees.    14.   the      method    according to claim 13, characterized  in   that    said   drying      ,as    stream is conducted   between    the product to be dried and the desiccant   l@quid    substantially   without    any alteration of velocity   and    direction.    15. the method   according    to any of claims 1 to   14,    characterized in that said desiccant solution is an aqueous solution of   calcium    chloride, and the   drying    gas is air.      lo.    the   method      according    to any of clamis l to 15,   characterized    by that said drying gas stream   consists    of at least two parallel partial gas streams; the product to be dried is moved across said partial gas streams; and each of said partial gas streams is contacted with a desiccant liquid of specific   concentration    and   temperatur     17.  the method according to claim   16,    characterized  in that each of said partial gas streams is   contacted    with a more concentrated desiccant liquid than the desiccant liquid contacting the previous partial gas stream with respect to the direction of movement   of    the   product    to be dried.      18.    the   m@    thod according to claim 16 or 17   cheracterized    by further   comprising    the steps of producing at least two separated groups of desiccant liquid films of different concentration; placing said grups of desiccant liquid films side by side in the-    we      of said partial gas streams so that each of said partial gas streams is contacted with its own at least one group of desiccant liquid films.    19. the method according to claim 18, characterized in that each of said groups of desiccant liquid films is provided with its own liquid circulation or flow circuit; the liquid circulation or circuit of the last group with respect to the direction of movement of the product to be dried is fed with the regenerated desiccant liquid coming from said regenerating means; the circulation or circuit of each preceding group is fed with the overflow of the circulation'or circuit of the subsequent group, and the overflow of the circulation or circuit of the first group is conducted into said regenerating means.    20. an apparatus for drying products comprising at least one drying   compact rut    (25, 40) for the product (50) to be dried; at least one contacting device   (43)    for contacting a drying gas stream (64) with   2    desiccant   liquid    (413 to remove moisture from the gas; gas conducting means (58) for conducting the drying gas stream   in    a   substantially    closed path through said drying compartment (25, 40) and the or each said contacting device   i43);    gas circulating means (66;17a;17b;17c;17d) to cause the drying gas stream to circulate along said closed path; regenerating means (150) for removing moisture from the desiccant liquid;  and liquid circulating means (36,141) for circulating at least a part of the desiccant liquid through said   regenerating    means   (150)    and the or each said contacting   device      (4-3)    characterized in that the or each said   contacting    device   '43)    includes means (13,58) for producing at least one layer (1,41) of the desiccant liquid to   be-    contacted with the drying gas stream; said at least one  desiccant liquid layer (1, 41) being located in the vicinity of the product (2, 50) being said drying compartment (25,40).    21. the apparatus according to claim 20, characterised in that the or each said contacting device comprises a vessel   (13)    for producing a substantially horizontal   des    iccant liquid layer (1), said vessel (13) having on its wall bubbling caps (20) for bubbling the drying gas stream through said liquid layer (1), said vessel (13) being connected to said liquid circulating means (36) so as to cause the desiccant liquid to flow along said vessel, and said drying compartment (25) being located above or below said vessel   (13).       22. the apparatus according to claim 21, characterised in that said drying   compartment    (25) comprises a device (4) for transporting the product (2) to be dried through said drying compartment, said transporting device (4) having openings (5) for letting through .the drying gas stream, but not letting the product (2) to be dried drop.    23. the apparatus according to claim 22, characterised in that said transporting device is an endless belt conveyor (4) and said gas circulating means are ventilators or blowers   ( 17a, 17b, 17c, 17d)    placed side by side along said belt conveyor (4).    24. the apparatus according to claim 20, characterised in that the or each said contacting device (43) comprises liquid film conducting elements (58) places so that the drying gas stream is passing between said liquid film conducting elements (58).      25. the apparatus according to claim 24, characterised in that the or each said contacting device (43) further comprises a receptacle (55) for receiving and holding the incoming desiccant liquid, at least one pile lock (56) to guide in film form the liquid out of said receptacle (55), liquid distributing means having at least one distributing surface (57) connected to said at least one pile lock (56) and facing downwards, and liquid outlet means (62), wherein said film conducting elements   (56)    are connected between said liquid distributing surface (57) and said liquid outlet means (62) so that they conduct liquid films (41) from said surface (57) into said outlet means (62).    26. the apparatus according to claim 24 or 25, characterised in that said liquid film conducting elements (58) are arranged in at least one substantially vertical plane which is substantially perpendicular to the direction of the drying gas stream.    27. the apparatus according to claim 26, characterised by further comprising a basement or floor (49), a shellroof (65), and a false roof (54) provided with openings (47,47a) for letting through the drying gas stream and located between said basement or floor (49) and said shellroof (65), wherein said drying compartment (40) is located between said basement or floor (49) and said false roof (54), said gas circulating means are ventilators or blowers   (66,66')    placed between said false roof (54) and said shell-roof (65),  the or each said contacting device (43) is placed at said drying   compartment    (40) so that  said at least one vertical plane formed by said liquid film conducting elements (58a,58b,58c) is substantially perpendicular to the drying gas stream and extends between said   basement.or    floor (49) and said false roof (54).    28. the apparatus according to any of claims 24 to 27, characterised in that the or each said contacting device (43) consists of at least two liquid film modules (48a,48b,48c) placed side by side, each liquid film module (e.g. 48a) has its own liquid film conducting elements (e.g.58a) and own liquid circulating device   (e.g.6oa,61a)    providing a liquid flow circuit to form the liquid films on said own conducting elements, and said liquid film modules   (48a,48b,48c)    are provided with a common liquid channel (62) interconnecting said liquid circulating devices, said common liquid channel (62) being connected to said liouid circulating means (e.g.36).    29. the apparatus according to any of claims 20 to 28, characterised in that the ratio of any two flow cross-sections of said gas conducting means (37,38,49, 54) between said drying compartment (40) and a said contacting device (43) is between 0.2 and 5; and the or each said contacting device (43) is located at said drying   comnartment    (40) so that the drying gas stream is flowing between the product (50) to be dried and said contacting device (43) with a directional change of less than   30    degrees.     30. the apparatus according to claim 29, characterised in that said flow cross-section ratio is between 0.5 and 2, and said directional change is substantially zero degree.    31. the apparatus according to any of claims 29 or 30, characterised in that the distance between said drying compartment (40) and the or each said contacting device (43) is less than the hydraulic diameter of said gas conducting means   (37,38,49,54)    between them.   32. the apparatus according to any of claims 20 to 31, characterised by that said regenerating means   (iso)    comprises a multi-effect evaporator   (e.g.70    to 84).   33. the apparatus according to any of claims 20 to 31, characterised by that said regenerating means   (150)    comprises a multi-stage flash evaporator (151).   34. as an article of manufacture, a product prepared according to the method of any or claims 1 to 19, or by the apparatus of claims 20 to 33.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
