<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0010351
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800430
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
F16K-31/40 F16K-31/36 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
normally closed solenoid valve.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
modular controls corpus<sep>modular controls corporation<sep>modular controls corporation742 north princeton villa park illinois 60181us<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
kosarzecki constantine us<sep>kosarzecki, constantine<sep>kosarzecki, constantine415 cypress courtschaumburg illinois 60172us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
there is disclosed a normally closed solenoid valve  arranged to remain in an open condition notwithstand­ ing reverse fluid flow through the valve.  the valve includes an  outer casing (14) having a first bore means (32) and a second  bore means (34).  a poppet (16) within the casing (14) is mov­ able between open and closed valve positions.  the poppet  (16) includes an input orifice (42) and an output orifice (46).  a  plunger (18) forces the poppet (16) into the closed valve posi­ tion while blocking its output orifice (46) and unblocks the  output orifice (46) for permitting the poppet (16) to move into  the open valve position.  fluid flow restricting means (20)  disposed between the output orifice (46) and the second bore  means (34) restricts fluid flow between the output orifice (46)  and the second bore means (34) to one direction to permit the  valve to open while precluding the valve from closing upon  reverse fluid flow through the valve from the second bore  means (34) to the first bore means (32).  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
the present invention is generally directed to a normally closed valve which may be actuated by a solenoid or the like, and in particular, to a poppet valve which is arranged to remain in an open condition notwithstanding reverse fluid flow through the valve. valves, which may be externally energized for controlling the flow of fluids, have taken many forms. one form of valve which has found wide-spread acceptance is a normally closed poppet valve which may be externally energized by a solenoid. such valves include an outer casing having one or more first bores and a second bore communicating with respective fluid lines which contain the fluid, the flow of which is to be controlled. a poppet within the outer casing is movable axially within the casing between an open valve position and a closed valve position. the poppet includes an input orifice communicating with the first bores and an output orifice communicating with the second bore. a plunger, which is arranged to be actuated by a solenoid, is also within the outer casing and is axially movable within the outer casing between a first position and a second position. the plunger has a tip end, which, when in the first position forces the poppet into the closed valve position with the tip end blocking the output orifice of the poppet. when the plunger is moved by the solenoid to the second position, it unblocks the output orifice of the poppet and permits fluid to flow from the first bores, through the input orifice of the poppet, through the output orifice, and through the second bore. the input orifice of the poppet is substantially smaller in dimension than the output orifice of the poppet so that the fluid flow volume of the fluid flowing into the input orifice is substantially less than the fluid flow volume flowing from the output orifice. also, the poppet surfaces exposed to the flowing fluid and the internal surfaces of the outer casing are such that they present, with the differential fluid flow volumes of the fluid, a differential pressure across the poppet which causes the poppet to move into the open valve position allowing unrestricted fluid flow through the valve between the first bores and the second bore. to maintain the valve in its open valve condition, it is necessary to maintain the electrical energy to the solenoid. when closing of the valve is desired, the energy to the solenoid is removed and a return spring within the outer casing acting upon the plunger causes the plunger t mote back to its first position causing the poppet to move to its closed valve position. while valves of the foregoing variety have been found to be generally successful, they exhibit an inherent problem when fluid is caused to flow in a reversed direction through the valve. because the poppet is freely movable within the outer casing, and is not mechanically lined to the plunger, when fluid flows in a forward direction from the first
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims   1. a poppet valve arranged to remain in an open   conditior    notwithstanding reverse fluid flow through said valve including: an outer casing (14) having a first bore means (32) and a second bore means (34), a poppet (16) within said outer casing (14) movable axially between an open valve position and a closed valve position, and including an input orifice (42) communicating with said first bore means (32) and an output orifice (46) communicating with said second bore means, a plunger (18) also within said outer casing (14) having a tip end (50) and being axially movable within said outer casing (14) between a first position for moving said poppet (16) into said closed valve position with said tip end (50) blocking said output orifice (46) and a second position to unblock said output orifice (46) and to permit fluid to flow from said first bore means (32),  through said input orifice (42), through said output orifice (46), and through said second bore means (34) for causing said poppet (16) to move into said open valve position allowing unrestricted fluid flow through said valve between said first and second bore means (32, 34); the poppet valve characterized by fluid flow restricting means (20) between said output orifice (46) and said second bore means (34) for limiting fluid flow to only one direction between said output orifice (46) and said second bore means (34) to permit said valve to open while precluding said valve from closing notwithstanding reverse fluid flow through said valve from said second bore means (34) to said first bore means (32).   2. a poppet valve as defined in claim 1 further characterized in that said fluid flow restricting means (20) is carried by said poppet (16).     3. a poppet valve as defined in claim 2 further characterized in that said poppet (16) includes an enlarged bore (48) between said output orifice (46) and said second bore means (34) and said fluid flow restricting means (20) is seated within said enlarged bore (48) in juxtaposition to said output orifice (46).   4. a poppet valve as defined in claim 3 further characterized in that said fluid flow restricting means (20) is loosely seated within said enlarged bore (48) for being spaced from said output orifice (46) in response to fluid flow from said output orifice (46) to said second bore means (34) and for being in abutment with and in tight sealing engagement with said output orifice (46) responsive to reverse fluid flow through said valve from said   second hore    means (34) to said first bore means (32).   5. a poppet valve as defined in claim 4 further characterized in that said fluid flow restricting means (20) comprises a solid sheet of material being greater in dimension than the dimension of said output orifice (46) and including fluid flow openings (80) axially therethrough in the area of said sheet between the perimeter (70) of said sheet and the juxtaposed periphery (82) of said output orifice (46).   6. a poppet valve as defined in claim 5 further characterized in that said fluid flow restricting means (20) comprises a disc of solid material having a perimeter (70) substantially corresponding to the dimension of said enlarged bore (48), said disc including a plurality of cut-out portions (84) extending inwardly from the perimeter thereof.     7. a poppet valve as defined in claim 6 further characterized in that said inwardly extending cut-out portions (84) are arcuate in configuration.   8. a poppet valve as defined in claim 7 further characterized in that said enlarged bore (48) includes a circumferential groove (74) and wherein said valve further includes a split ring (76) within said groove (74) for loosely confining said fluid flow restricting means (20) within said enlarged bore (48) in juxtaposition to said output orifice (46).   9. a poppet valve including an outer casing (14) having first bore means (32) and second bore means   (34),    a poppet (16) within said casing movable axially therein between a first position for closing said valve and a second position for fully opening said valve to permit unrestricted fluid flow between said first bore means (32) and second bore means (34) and having an input orifice (42) communicating with said first bore means (32), and an output orifice (46) communicating with said second bore means (34), said poppet (16) being responsive to fluid flow from said input orifice (42) to and through said output orifice (46) for moving to said second position for opening said valve,  the poppet valve characterized by fluid flow restricting means (20) disposed between said output orifice (46) and said second bore means (34) for limiting fluid flow within said poppet (16) to fluid flow from said input orifice (42) to said output orifice (46) for precluding said poppet (16) from moving to said first position for closing said valve upon reverse fluid flow through said valve from said second bore means (34) to said first bore means (32).   claims 1. a poppet valve arranged to remain in an open condition notwithstanding reverse fluid flow through said valve including: an outer casing (14) having a first bore means (32) and a second bore means (34), a poppet (16) within said outer casing (14) movable axially between an open valve position and a closed valve position, and including an input orifice (42)   comm.unicating    with said first bore means (32) and an output   orifice    (46)   communicatinr    with said second bore means,  a plunger (18) also within said outer casing (14) having a tip end (50) and being axially   mcvable    within said outer casing (14) between a first position for moving said poppet (16) into   sald    closed valve position with said tip end (50) blocking said output orifice (46) and a second position to unblock said output orifice (46) and to permit fluid to flow from said first bore means (32), through said input orifice (42), through said output orifice (46), and through said second bore means (34) for causing said poppet (16) to move into said open valve position allowing unrestricted fluid flow through said valve between said first and second bore means (32, 34);   the poppet valve characterized by said poppet (16) having an inner circumferential groove (74) spaced from said   output    orifice (46) between said second bore means (34) and said output orifice (46), fluid flow restricting means within said circumferential groove (74) and a disc (20) loosely confined in juxtaposition to said output orifice (46) by said split ring (76) and including peripheral fluid flow openings (80) for limiting fluid flow to only one direction between said output orifice (46) and said second bore means (34) to   permit    said valve to open while precluding said valve from closing notwithstanding reverse fluid flow through said valve from said second bore means (34) to said first bore means (32).     a a poppet valve as defined in claim 2 further charac-    erized in that said poppet (16) includes an enlarged bore   1(48)    between said output orifice (46) and said second  ore means (34) and said fluid flow restricting means (20)  is seated within said enlarged bore (48) in juxtaposition to said output orifice (46).   4. a poppet valve as defined in claim 3 further   characterized    in that said fluid flow restricting means   (20)    is loosely seated within said enlarged bore (48) for being spaced from said output orifice (46) in   response    to fluid flow from said output orifice (46) to said second bore means (34) and for being in abutment with and in tight sealing engagement with said output orifice (46) responsive to reverse fluid flow through said valve from said second bore means (34) to said first bore means (32).   5. a poppet valve as defined in claim 4 further characterized in that said fluid flow restricting means (20) comprises a solid sheet of material being greater in dimension than the dimension of said output orifice (46) and including fluid flow openings (80) axially therethrough in the area of said sheet between the perimeter (70) of said sheet and the juxtaposed periphery (82) of said output orifice (46).   6. a poppet valve as defined in claim 5 further characterized in that said fluid flow restricting means (20) comprises a disc of solid material having a perimeter (70) substantially corresponding to the dimension of said enlarged bore (48), said disc including a plurality of cut-out portions (84) extending inwardly from the perimeter thereof.     7. a poppet valve as defined in claim 6 further   chìracterized    in that said enlarged bore (48) includes said circumferential groove (74).   8. a poppet valve including an outer casing (14) having first bore means (32) and second bore means (34), a poppet (16) within said casing movable axially therein between a first position for closing said valve and a second position for fuily opening said valve to permit unrestricted fluid flow between said first bore means (32j and second bore means (34) and having an input   o..ic,4ce    (42)   communicaring    with said first bore means (32), and an output orifice (46) communicating with said second bore means (34), said poppet (16) being responsive to fluid flow from said input orifice (42) to and through said output orifice (46) for moving to said second position for opening said valve,   the poppet valve characterized by planar valve means (20) loosely confined about its perimeter within said poppet (16) in juxtaposition to said output orifice (46) between said output orifice (46) and said second bore means (34) for limiting fluid flow within said poppet (16) to fluid flow from said input orifice (42) to said output orifice (46) for precluding said poppet (16) from moving to said first position for closing said valve upon reverse fluid flow through said valve from said second bore means (34) to said first bore means (32).  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
