<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0011482
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800528
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B65D-85/32 B65D-85/30 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
improvements in trays for containing eggs, fruit or other articles.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
autobar vendabeka ltdgb<sep>brown packaging w rgb <sep>autobar vendabeka limited <sep>william r. brown (packaging) company limited <sep>autobar vendabeka limitedwylds roadbridgwater somersetgb<sep>william r. brown (packaging) company limited"the birches" lower broad oak road west hillottery st. mary devonshiregb<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
brown william robertgb<sep>brown, william robert<sep>brown, william robert"the birches" lower broad oak roadwest hill ottery st. mary, devonshiregb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a tray (1) for containing eggs, fruit or other relatively  fragile articles is of generally square shape in plan and is  thermo-formed, as a thin-walled product, from plastics sheet  material.  it comprises rows and columns of article-receiving  pockets (2) defined by hollow upstanding bosses (5,6), each  pocket being interconnected with adjacent pockets by deep,  generally v-shaped channels (11) extending between adja­ cent bosses.  these channels form the underneath of the tray  into a grid-like configuration in which the outsides of the  pockets (2) are joined to adjacent pockets by the hollow webs  formed by the channels.  this grid-like configuration serves  to provide the tray with strength and rigidity and enables  articles, such as eggs, to be carried in the thin-walled plastics  tray without the tray collapsing or folding when it is held at  its edges.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
improvements in trays for containing eggs, fruit or other articles background of the invention the present invention relates to trays for containing eggs, fruit or other articles and, more particularly, to such trays of the type which are moulded from plastics material and comprise a multiplicity of.article-receiving pockets disposed in an array of rows and columns in the tray. trays of this type may be used for packaging, storing and transporting large quantities of eggs, fruit or other relatively fragile articles and must be stackable, when loaded with the articles, so as to avoid damage to the articles and permit the trays to be handled in loaded stacks. such plastics trays have many advantages over conventional moulded pulp trays. they. are reusable to a much greater extent than moulded pulp trays. they are washable so that they can be cleaned before re-use to avoid contamination by defective or broken articles previously contained in the trays, and they do not lose their strength when dampened by liquid excreted by defective or broken articles or otherwise. however, in order to be commercially viable and compete with conventional pulp trays, trays moulded from plastics material, such as plastics foil or sheet material, must have a thin walled construction. hitherto, the constructions utilised for thin walled plastics trays have, when loaded, lacked the strength and rigidity required for handling either singly or in a stack. this has proved especially so with regard to the normally commercially used "keyes" type of egg trays designed to hold, conventionally, thirty eggs per tray, the difficulty in handling such egg-filled trays increasing when stacked one on top of the other. moreover, the egg-receiving pockets utilised in prior trays have not been entirely satisfactory for separately containing all sizes of eggs commercially marketed and, when the trays are filled, for preventing side-to-side knocking together and damaging of the eggs during handling and transit. summary of the invention it is an object of the present invention to alleviate the problems experienced with prior moulded plastics trays and to provide a tray construction which may be thermo-formed, as a thin walled plastics product, from plastics sheet material with the desired strength and rigidity. to this end, the invention consists in a tray of the type described above for containing eggs, fruit or other articles, which is thermo-formed from plastics sheet material and comprises rows and columns of articlereceiving pockets defined by hollow upstanding boss portions of the tray, each pocket being interconnected with at least one adjacent pocket by a deep, generally wedge or v-shaped channel extending between adjacent upstanding boss portions. preferably, the channels are of such a depth that the bottoms of the charnels are disposed at a level at or adjacent the bottoms of the pockets and the channel bottoms are substantially coplanar. preferably, all the pockets or the majority of the pockets sre interronnected with each adjacent pocket by such a v-shaped channel, whereby the hollow upstanding boss portions defining the pockets are formed into rows and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims   1. a tray (1) for containing eggs, fruit or other   artícles,which    is of rectangular shape in plan and comprises a multiplicity of article-receiving pockets (2,2a) disposed in an array of rows and columns in the tray, characterised in that the tray is   thormo-formed    from plastics sheet material, the rows and columns of article-receiving pockets (2,2a) are defined by hollow upstanding boss portions (5,6) of the tray, and each pocket is interconnected with at least one adjacent pocket by a deep v-shaped' channel (11) extending between adjacent upstanding boss portions.   2. a tray as claimed in claim 1, wherein the bottoms (14) of the channels (11) are substantially coplanar and said channels are of such a depth that their bottoms are disposed at a level adjacent the bottoms of the pockets (2,2a).   3. a tray as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein each, or each of a   majority,of    the pockets (2) is interconnected with each adjacent pocket by a v-shaped channel   (    whereby the upstanding boss portions (5,6) defining said pockets are formed into rows and columns of individual bosses, and wherein said v-shaped channels form the underneath of the tray into a grid-like   confimlrntion    in which the outsides (21) of the pockets are joined to adjacent pockets by hollow webs (22) formed by the channels   (11),    said hollow webs (22) defining rectangular compartments of the grid-like configuration.   4. a tray as claimed in claim 3, wherein the individual bosses (5) have a truncated pyramidal shape with opposed sides of adjacent bosses forming the sides of the channels (11).   5. a tray as claimed in claim 1, 2, 3 or   4,      wherein    the rows and columns of   pockets    have an odd and even number of similar pockets, respectively,   whereby    a like tray is stackable on top of said tray with the bottoms of  the pockets of the upper tray resting on the tops (8) of the bosses of the lower tray when the upper tray is oriented at right angles to the lower tray.    6. a tray as claimed in claim 5, wherein opposite sides (3) of the tray parallel to the rows or columns having the greater number of pockets are formed with marginal, ledge portions (7) joining the adjacent row of bosses to said sides, said ledge portions being disposed below the rim of the tray and serving as ledges on the underneath of the tray, at opposite sides thereof, by which the tray can be manually lifted.      7,    a tray as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, including stacking shoulders (23) for preventing the tray from wedging in a like tray when stacked in internested relation therewith.   8. a tray for containing eggs, fruit or other articles, constructed substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to the accompanying drawings.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
