<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0010419
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800430
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
F26B-21/00 B65D-88/74 F26B-9/10 F26B-9/00 B65D-88/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
duct apparatus for treating bulk material.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
simplex cambridgegb<sep>simplex of cambridge limited<sep>simplex of cambridge limitedsawston, cambridge cb2 4ljgb<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
craig david francisgb<sep>craig, david francis<sep>craig, david franciswestwood farmmuch wenlock, salop tf13 6qagb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
the invention relates to duct apparatus for the treatment  of material such as agricultural produce stored in bulk, com­ prising a main duct 10 into which air or other treatment fluid  can be introduced under pressure and a number of lateral  ducts 13 from which the fluid passes into the material 11  heaped over the lateral ducts 13.  for enabling mechanical  handling means to enter the material store for filling or empty­ ing it, the invention provides a form of lateral duct 13 that is  telescopically contractible in length towards the main duct 10  so as to remove all or most of the obstruction presented by the  lateral duct.  the invention extends also to the duct apparatus  as a whole in which some or all of the lateral ducts are of this  telescopically contractible form.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
duct apparatus for treating bulk material this invention relates to apparatus for the treatment with gaseous fluid of a granular, fibrous or other material which is permeable to such fluid when stored in bulk, which apparatus n of the kind (hereirt after referred to as duct apparatus of the kind spy era comprising a main duct into which the treatment fluid @an be introduced under pressure and a plurality of lateral ducts each communicating with and extending from the mai@ duct so as in use to lie across the storage floor on which the said material is to be heaped so as to cover the lateral ducts and each of which lateral ducts has one or more apertures extending over or distributed along its length through which the treatment fluid passing into the lateral duct from the main duct can emerge at or near floor level for permeating said material. in some cases the main duct might be designed to be within the storage enclosure for the material so as to provide one or more of the walls bounding the floor area on to which the material is to be heaped. in other cases the main duct might be designed to lie outside the storage enclosure and the lateral ducts pass to it through apertures in the enclosure walls. the treatment fluid may be a gas, vapour or gaseous suspension according to the nature of the material and the type of treatment to be carried out. the invention is especially, although not exclusively, concerned with such apparatus for treating agricultural material such as seeds (for example grain) or plants (for example herbage) or roots (for example potatoes) and especially for drying or ventilating such material with air, which may be conditioned (for example heated) before supply to the lateral ducts. the invention will be further described and explained with particular reference to its use for the drying of grain stored in sulk. the drying of grain is fequently carried out in large grain sheds which may typically be 40 metres long by 20 metres wide. when grain is in such a store it is normally piled on the floor to a depth of about three to four metres. if damp grain is stored, it will rapidly become unfit for consumption if steps are not taken to dry it thoroughly. a conventional grain store therefore is usually fitted with a main duct extending along its entire length, positioned either along one wall or down the centre of the grain store. the main duct is fitted with large air blowers. at one or both sides of the main duct, there are provided a plurality of lateral ducts. these are usually formed of expanded metal, perforated plate or the like and are in communication with the interior of the main duct so that the air supplied by the blowers is conducted along the main duct and distributed through the lateral ducts from which it can pass into the bulk of the grain heaped
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
   claims      1. duct apparatus for the treatment with gaseous fluid of a granular, fibrous or other material which is permeable to the fluid when stored in bulk, which apparatus comprises a main duct (3, 10) into which the treatment fluid can be introduced under pressure and a number of lateral ducts (4, 13) each communicating with and extending from the main duct so as in use to lie across the storage floor on which the said   mater-    ial is heaped so as to cover the lateral ducts and each of which lateral ducts has one or more apertures (19, 31) extending over or distributed along its length through which the treatment fluid passing into the lateral duct from the main duct can emerge at or near ground level for permeating said material characterised in that one or more of the said lateral ducts is formed by a number of telescopically interfitting sections (14 to 17,  30) so as to be telescopically contractible in length towards the wall of the main duct from which the lateral duct extends.   2. duct apparatus according to claim 1 character   ised    in that the interfitting sections of the telescopically contractible lateral ducts are provided with longitudinal guidance means (36,   37)    which reduces the extent to which the interfitting sections of the   later    ducts can be displaced sideways relatively to each other.   3. duct apparatus according to claim 2 characterised in that the longitudinal guidance means for a lateral duct consists of a forward extension (37) of the one section bottom in the form of a tray (35) over which the next smaller section in the telescopic sequence for the lateral   ducts can    slide and which tray has upturned edges (36) which bound the sides of the said next section.   4. duct apparatus   according    to claim 1, 2 or 3  characterised in that the sides of each section of the telescopically contractible lateral ducts are of convex arcuate shape (32, 33) meeting at a central longitudinal ridge (34).   5. duct apparatus according to any preceding claim characterised in that for effecting the telescopic contraction of the lateral ducts a cable (7, 20, 39) is attached to the end of the lateral duct remote from the main duct and passes within the lateral duct to its other end where it can be engaged by a winch (9, 22) housed within the main duct.   6. a duct for conveying and distributing gaseous fluid which is formed by a number of telescopically interfitting sections (14 to 17, 30) so as to be telescopically contractible in length and which is designed for use as a telescopically contractible lateral duct in duct apparatus in accordance with any preceding claim.   7. apparatus for the storage and treatment with a gaseous fluid of material which is permeable to the fluid when stored in bulk, such as grain or other agricultural produce, the apparatus including a main duct (3,   leo),    means (6) for   introduciag    the gaseous fluid under pressure into the main duct, and a number of   laterai ducts    (4, 13) extending from the main duct across the floor of the store on to which the material can be heaped so as to cover the lateral ducts, these ducts communicating with the main duct and having apertures   (l9,    31) through which the fluid can pass into the material, characterised in that each of some or all of the lateral ducts is formed by a number of telescopically interfitting sections (14 to 17, 31) and is provided with retractor means (7, 20,   39) for enabling the fully extended lateral duct to be telescopically contractible in length towards the wall of the main duct from which it extends.     8. apparatus according to claim 7 characterised in that the adjacent sections of the telescopically contractible lateral ducts are provided with longitudinal guidance means (36,   37)    for reducing the extent to which the sections can be displaced sideways relatively to each other.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
