<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0007427
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800206
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<main>G01N-11/14</main> G01N-11/14 G01N-11/10 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
viscometer.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
brookfield david a<sep>brookfield, david a.<sep>brookfield, david a.c/o haseltine, lake &amp; waters 122 east 42nd streetnew york, new york 10017us<sep>brookfield, david a. <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
brookfield david a<sep>brookfield, david a.<sep>brookfield, david a.c/o haseltine, lake &amp; waters 122 east 42nd streetnew york, new york 10017us<sep>brookfield, david a.<sep>brookfield, david a.c/o haseltine, lake &amp; waters 122 east 42nd streetnew york, new york 10017us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a viscometer of the type having a chamber within which  there are concentric, open ended cylindrical elements (28,48)  one of which is positioned within the other.  a drive (24,25,26  27) is provided to rotate the outer element (28).  the inner  element (48) has one end of a readout rod (45) connected  axially thereto.  the readout rod (45) extends freely through a  tube which seals the rod (45) against the fluid flowing through  the chamber and its other end extends outside the viscometer  and has the rotor (54) of a readout device connected thereto.   the major percentage of the wanted torsional resistance  against the turning of the inner element (48) relatively to the  other element is provided by a resilient device which also  provides for lateral stability for the inner element (48), thus  enabling the rod-sealing tube to offer but a minor percentage  of such resistance.  the readout rod (45) is held by a bearing  (66) adjacent its outer end and close to the center of gravity of  the rotor (54).  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
viscometer this invention relates to a viscometer of the type having concentric open ended cylindrical elements, one of which is positioned within the other. the open ended cylindrical elements are positioned within a chamber containing a mass of liquid the viscosity of which is to be monitored. one of the cylindrical elements is provided with a drive, and the other of the cylindrical elements is driven by the frictional drag of the liquid in the space between the cylindrical elements in response to the turning movement of the driving cylinder. such a viscometer requires a torsion unit positioned within the medium to support the driven cylinder, the torsion unit including a first fixed part and a second part which is connected to the driven cylindrical element. a metal tube provides the axial support of the second part, the tube having its ends sealed to both parts. a readout element is located within the tube and has one end anchored to turn with the driven cylindrical element, the other end of the readout element being operatively connected to a readout device external of the chamber to provide wanted information of the extent of angular displacement of the driven cylindrical member about its longitudinal axis. the above described type of viscometer well illustrates the necessity of ensuring lateral stability of the driven cylindrical element as well as torsional resistance against angular displacement of that cylindrical element. the metal tube presents a problem in such viscometers when the torque applied thereto exceeds a predetermined value, at which the lateral deflection of said second part, or the readout element, or both, can occur and cause inaccurate readout information. the metal tube, in addition to protecting and sealing the readout element from the liquid, also has to provide for both the lateral stability for the driven cylindrical element and torsional resistance against angular displacement of the driven cylindrical element about its longitudinal axis. as a consequence, the tubes, prior to the present invention, have been of a relatively large diameter and thick walled stock and hence of such stiffness that the sensitivity of such torsion devices has been seriously limited. it is an object of the present invention to provide a viscometer of the type described which has greater sensitivity than that of such known viscometers. according to the present invention, there is provided a viscometer including a chamber, first and second concentric open-ended cylindrical elements within the chamber, one of the cylindrical elements being positioned within the other with a clearance appropriate for the flow of liquid between the respective cylindrical elements, means to rotate one cylindrical element relatively to the other and which includes a shaft member rotatably entrant of said chamber and connected axially to said one cylindrical element, a torque responsive device supporting said inner cylindrical element in spaced relationship with the outer cylindrical element and which includes a hub having an axial passage extending therethrough, a part connected to said inner cylindrical element, a tube sealed axially to said part
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:   1. a viscometer including a chamber, first and second concentric open-ended cylindrical elements (48,28) within the chamber, one of the cylindrical elements being positioned within the other with a clearance appropriate for the flow of liquid between the respective cylindrical elements, means (27) to rotate one cylindrical element relatively to the other and which includes a shaft member (18) rotatably entrant of said chamber and connected axially to said one cylindrical element, and a torque responsive device (10) supporting said inner cylindrical element (48) in spaced relationship with the outer cylindrical element (28), and which includes a hub   (36)    having an axial passage (38) extending therethrough, a part   (39)    connected to said inner cylindrical element (48), a tube (44) sealed axially to said part (39) and to said hub (36),  and a readout rod (45) within said tube (44) with one end anchored to the second cylindrical element and the other end extending freely through the tube and the passage (38) of the hub   (36},    characterized in that the inside diameter of said hub (44) is such that the readout rod (45) is close but a free fit therein and the outside diameter of the tube (44) is such that the tube provides a minor percentage of said torsional resistance but establishes a wall that is not deformable against the readout rod by fluid pressure, resilient members (42) connect said part   (39)    to said hub (36) and provide a major percentage of torsional resistance, and a readout device (52) is positioned externally of the chamber and includes a rotor   (65)    fixed on the exposed end of the readout rod (45),  a stator (53) surrounding said rotor and fixed on a supporting portion (59), and a bearing (66) located close to the center of gravity of the rotor (65) and which supports the readout rod (45) at a position immediately adjacent the rotor   (65).        2. the viscometer of claim 1, characterized in that the part (38) connected to the inner cylindrical element (48) has a threaded hub (40) and the inner cylindrical element (48) has an axial threaded seat for said hub.   3. the viscometer of claim 1, characterized in that the torque responsive device (10) is supported in a threaded port (46) in a wall member   (13)    of the chamber.   4. the viscometer of claim 1, characterized in that the torque responsive device (10) is supported in a threaded port (46a) in a shaft member   (18a).      5. the viscometer of claim 1, characterized in that the stator (53) of the readout device (52) is rotatably held by a supporting portion   (56),    and releasable means (62) lock said stator thereto.   6. the viscometer of claim   4r    characterized in that the supporting portion is an end section of the shaft member   (18a).      7. the viscometer of claim 3, characterized in that the supporting portion is a post (59) connected to the wall member.   8. the viscometer of claim 1, characterized in that the rotor (65) has an axial socket (64) dimensioned to receive the outer end of the supporting portion and said bearing within it.    9. the viscometer of claim 1, characterized in that the supporting portion (59) includes a ring (56) fixed to the outer surface of the wall member (13), a post (59) rotatably held by the fixed ring, and means (62) releasably locking  the post to said ring thereby providing means enabling the stator to be turned into and set in a predetermined zero position.   10. the viscometer of claim 9, characterized in that the fixed ring (56) includes an annular flange having a central port in which the post   c59)    is a close but free fit, a spring washer (60) is seated against the inner surface of the flange, and a keeper (61) carried by the post is resiliently engaged by the washer and yieldably maintains the post seated against said wall member.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
