<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0017437
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19801015
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
G01N-1/24 G01N-1/22 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
gas flow and sampling devices and gas monitoring system.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
sybron corpus   <sep>sybron corporation<sep>sybron corporation1100 midtown towerrochester, ny 14604us<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
windemer richard iangb<sep>windemer, richard ian<sep>windemer, richard ianc/o 4, tamar terracehorsebridge tavistock devongb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a gas sampling device (50) includes a sampling channel  (52) incorporating a coanda-effect device (90) which is  arranged to produce a flow of the gas to be tested through  the sampling channel (52).  a venturi (69) is provided in the  channel upstream of the coanda-effect device (90) so as to  produce a pressure differential between two locations in the  channel in response to gas flow therethrough.  a testing  channel inlet connection (73) communicates by way of an  annular filter element (80) with the location which is at the  higher pressure and provides a filtered flow path to a  gas-testing device.  a testing channel outlet connection (74)  communicates with the other, lower pressure location to  provide a gas return path from the gas testing device.  an improved construction of coanda-effect device is  also disclosed, as is a gas monitoring system incorporating  the gas sampling device in combination with a gas duct, such  as a flue arrangement.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
improved gas flow and gas sampling devices background of the invention ( fild of the invention this invention relates to improved gas flow devices using the coanda effect and also to improved gas sampling devices that may advantageously be used for extracting for test purposes a contiruous sample of a gas which may contain suspended particulate matter (2) description of the prior art in a number of applications1 such as flue gas analysis, there is a requirement to sense continuously the condition of a flowing gas. in one continuous sampling device, described in u.s. patent no. re 29,2091 a continuous flow of gas through a testing apparatus is produced by producing in the apparatus a temperature differential whereby gas is withdrawn from and returned to the main stream by convection. the rate of gas flow thus produced is necessarily slow and the flow must not be obstructed. widen this apparatus is used to sample gases contaminated by suspended particles the low flow rate results in deposition of the particles in the test apparatus leading to large and spurious variations in the measured characteristic and frequent cleaning is therefore required another problen with such an arrangement is that, due to the relatively slow rate of gas flow, testing performed ni tne sampled gas will have a correspondingly long response time. furthermore ince t gas flo depends on convection, the sampling device must be mounted so as to provide a vertical flow pat):.; this only one orientation of the apparatus is possible, which is a major di sadvantage in use. the use of the coaiida effect, first patented by h. coanda in u.s. patent no. 2,052,869, to effect isokinetic gas flow sampling for the purpose of obtaining a gas sample to be continuously tested has heretofore been proposed in, for example, u.s. patent no. 4,060,00l. the arrangement disclosed therein utilizes a coanda-effect device to provided flow of a gas to bc sampled, the outlet of the device being arranged to induce flow of the gas into a sample probe for analysis. one disadvantage with this arrangement is that the motive gas supply, frequently air under pressure, is introduced into the gas flow to be sampled. the results of the analysis by the probe are accordingly inaccurate as the gas has been diluted by the motive gas supply. when the motive gas is air, and the gas being monitored is oxygen or nitrogen, this inaccuracy can be substantial. a further disadanage of this arrangement is that when a contaminated gas is being monitored, despite the high flow velocities involved, particles suspended in the gas may still be deposited on the sample probe as described above with reference to the convection sampling arrangement. in another known testing apparatus, a continuous sample of gas is withdrawn from the main gas stream by passing the main stream through a passage having a restriction and coupling a conduit containing the testing apparatus between one location in the passage upstream of the restriction und another location in the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:      1.    gas sampling apparatus comprising:  gas inlet means arranged to provide entry of a gas to be tested into said apparatus;  a sampling channel coupled to said gas inlet means and including a coanda-effect device for producing a flow of said gas to be tested through said sampling channel;  a venturi disposed within said sampling channel upstream of said coanda-effect device;  first and second locations in said sampling channel providing a pressure differential therebetween in response to   floç    of said gas through said venturi1 said first location in use being at a higher pressure than said second location;  testing channel inlet and outlet connections communicating with said sampling channel at said first and second locations respectively;  and  a filter element disposed adjacent said testing channel inlet connection so as to filter gas passing through said testing channel inlet connection.   2. apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said filter element is generally annular and arranged so that gas flow through said sampling channel passes substantially unobstructed through   -the    bore of the annular filter element, gas passing through said testing channel inlet connection being filtered by said filter element.   3. apparatus as claimed in claim 2 wherein said sampling   channel    includes   nn    enlarged chamber for housing said annular filter   element,    said testing channel inlet   connection    opening into said   enjargd    chamber.     4. apparatus as claimed in claim 3 wherein the internal diameter of the bore of said annular filter element substantially equals the internal diameter of adjacent portions of said sampling channel, said   annular    filter element thereby forming a continuation of said sampling channel.   5. apparatus as claimed in claim 4 wherein said filter element ir formed of sintered metal.   6. apparatus as claimed in claim 3 wherein the internal diameter of the bore of said annular filter element is greater than the internal diameter of adjacent portions of said sampling channel, said apparatus including an extension member provided with at least one aperture, said extension member being positioned within the bore of said annular filter element, said internal diameter of said metal extension substantially cqualling the internal diameter of said adjacent portion3 of said sampling channel.   7t apparatus   r.s    claimed in claim 6 wherein said filter element is formed of glass fibre.      apparatus    as claimed in claim 1 wherein said coanda-effect device comprises first and second   mcrabers,    ench having a flow channel   therethrough,    said first and second members being connected together so as to   position    the respective flow channels in alignment thereby to provide a part of said sampling channel and so   l5    to define a gns-discharge slit between said first and second members which opens into said sampling channel, a spacer positioned between opposed surfaces of said first and second   members    so as to determine the   8ize    of   the      g,as-disc1largo    slit,  and   motive    gas intake  means communicating with said gas-discharge slit.   9. apparatus as claimed in claim 8 wherein one of said opposed surfaces additionally defines one side of said gas-discharge slit, the thickness of said spacer being selected to be equal to the required width of said gas-discharge slit.   10.   apparatus    as claimed in claim 8 wherein said spacer comprises an annular washer1 said opposed surfaces of said first and second members being arranged to   rece ve    said annular washer.      11. apparatus    as claimed in claim 8 wherein the flow channel of said first member is provided with first and second tapering portions at the opening of said gas-discharge slit, said first and second tapering portions   being    formed by conical surfaces having different apical angles.   12. apparatus as claimed in claim 8   wherein    said first and second   members    are connected together by mutually engaging screw-threaded portions provided on said first and second members1 said spacer limiting the extent of threaded engagement of said first and second members.      13.    in a gas monitoring system for continuously   monitored    gas flowing through a duct, the system comprising gas sampling apparatus for sampling the gas, a gas testing device for testing the   sampled    gas, gas inlet means connecting said duct to said gas sampling apparatus to   flow    flow of gas to said gas sampling   apparatus, t and gas outlet means connecting said gas      sampling      apparatus    to said   tiuct      doutnstream    of said gas  inlet means thereby to return sampled gas to said duct;  the improvement wherein said gas sampling apparatus comprises: :  a sampling channel coupled to said gas inlet means and including a coanda-effect device for producing a flow of gas from said duct through said sampling channel;  a venturi disposed within said sampling channel upstream of said coanda-effect device;  first and second locations in said sampling channel providing a pressure differential therebetween in response to flow of said gas through said venturi1 said first location in use being at a higher pressure than said second location;  testing channel inlet and outlet means   communicating    at one end with said sampling channel at said first and second locations respectively, and at the other end with said gas testing device so as to allow flow of gas respectively to and from said gas testing device;  ;   and     a filter element disposed adjacent the connection of said testing channel inlet means with said sampling channel so as to filter gas flowing to said gas testing device.   14. a gas monitoring system as claimed in   claim;    13 wherein said filter   elenient    is generally annular and arranged so that gas flow through said sampling channel passes substantially unobstructed through the bore of the annular filter element.   15. a gas flow device utilizing the coanda effect comprising first and second members,   teach    having a flow   chriincl    therethrough, said first   and    second members being connected   together    so as to position the respective   flow channels in alignment and so as to define a   gas.-    discharge slit between said first and second members   which    opens into said aligned flow channels, a spacer positioned between opposed surfaces of said first and second members so as to determine the size of the gasdischarge slit, and motive gas intake means communicating with said gas-discharge slit.      16.    a device as claimed in claim 15   '.erein    one of said opposed surfaces additionally defines one side of said gas-discharge slit, the thickness of said spacer beirg selected to be equal to the required width of said gas-discharge slit.       17.    a device as claimed in claim 15 wherein said spacer comprises an annular washer, said opposed surfaces of said first and second members being arranged to receive said annular washer.      18.    a   device    as claimed in claim 15 wherein the flow channel of said first member is provided with first and second tapering rortions at the opening of said gas-discharge slit, said first and second tapering portions being formed by. conical surfaces having different apical angles   19.    a device as claimed in claim15 wherein said first and second members are connected together by mutually engaging screw-threaded portions provided on said first end second members, said spacer limiting the extent   cf    threaded engagement of said first and second members.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
