<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0016252
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19801001
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
G21C-19/00 G21F-1/08 G21F-1/00 G21C-19/40 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
a method of manufacturing a neutron absorbing article and neutron absorbing articles.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
carborundum cous<sep>the carborundum company<sep>the carborundum company345 third street post office box 156niagara falls, new york 14302us<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
gaffney michael fus <sep>shaffer peter t bus <sep>gaffney, michael f. <sep>shaffer, peter t.b.<sep>gaffney, michael f.2394 balmer roadransomville, new yorkus<sep>shaffer, peter t.b.568 prospect avenuegrand island, new yorkus<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a neutron absorbing article, suitable for absorbing neut­ rons released by spent nuclear fuel stored in a storage rack in  a storage pool, to prevent undesirable emission thereof, is  made by plasma spraying onto a metal or metal alloy subs­ trate (15) boron carbide and a metal or metal alloy (17), fed to  the plasma spray gun (11) in powder form, until a suitable  areal density of b (or a suitable thickness of the boron car­ bide in a matrix of the metal or alloy) is deposited.  such a real  density is usually obtained at a thickness from 3 to 6 mm.  and  the deposit resulting is hard and strong and may be ground or  otherwise machined to desired surface configuration, which  is preferably smooth and flat or tubular.  the plasma sprayed  coating is also usefully applied to various other items, such as  spent fuel shipping casks, body shields, vehicle shields,  equipment housings and room walls, to prevent passing of  neutrons through them.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
manufacture. of neutron absorbing articles this invention relates to neutron absorbing articles, to methods for their manufacture and to their uses to prevent undesirable emissions of neutrons from sources thereof, such as spent nuclear fuel. more particularly, the invention is of a method for manufac- turing such neutron absorbing articles wherein boron carbide and a metal or metal alloy matrix for the boron carbide are plasma sprayed onto a metal or metal alloy substrate, the article made and neutron absorbing uses thereof. the b10 content of boron is known to be an especially useful neutron absorber. boron carbide has been employed for its neutron absorbing properties and articles containing boron carbide, in metallic and polymeric matrices,llave been manufactured and have been successfully employed as neutron absorbers, sometimes in storage racks for spent nuclear fuels, which racks are usually located in aqueous storage pools. recently various neutron absorbing articles, often in flat plate form, have been made by dispersing boron carbide powder in a phenolic resin matrix and curing the resin, whereby t:llore is formed a stable article of jiigh neutron absorbing power. although such articles have been successfully employed as neutron absorbers and have excellent stabilities.for most applications, because the phenol it resin is organic there is a possibliity that some decomposition thereof and loss of physical properties may be encountered after lengthy use, e.g., after 20 to 40 years. also, it is sometimes advantageous for a nuclear absorbing article to be of better thermal conductivity than such articles based on phenolic resin (which has a comparatively low thermal conductivity). it is known that metals are much better conductors of heat than organic polymers and additionally, they are resistant to weakening due to radiation from nuclear materials. for such reasons mixtures of boron carbide and aluminum particles have been encased in aluminum sheaths and have been employed as neutron absorbers and in other instances boron carbide particles have been dispersed in melts of metallic materials which, upon cooling, have been found to be useful neutron absorbing articles. flame spraying and plasma spraying of boron carbide have been effected to coat wear parts of machinery and bearings and to form hardened surfaces on tools of various types. in some casts such processes have been suggested for the manufacture of radiation absorbing items. however, it is known that boron carbide may decompose when flame sprayed so as to produce boric oxide, which is objectionable in neutron absorbing articles which could be exposed to aqueous media (due to a leak in a storage rack wall or for other reasons). also, lasma spraying, as described in the art known to applicants, is of different materials, effected differently pr rcsults-in a different product fromflthat of applicants and it is considered that the present products are superior to those of the prior art. for example, it has been reported to one of the applicants that the thicknesses of deposit needed to make most satisfactory neutron absorbing plate (or other shapes) were hitherto unobtainable. in accordance with
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
what is claimed is:    1. a method of manufacturing a neutron absorbing article which comprises plasma spraying boron carbide and a metallic substance from the group consisting of metals and metal alloys onto a substrate so that the boron carbide deposits on   the-substrate    in a matrix of the metallic substance without oxidation of the boron thereof, so as to produce a neutron absorber that is stable when exposed to an aqueous pool medium in which racks of spent nuclear fuel   are    stored with a plurality of such neutron absorbing articles therein to absorb neutrons released by the spent   fuel    and thereby prevent undesirable neutron emissions therefrom.    2. a method according to claim 1 wherein the boron carbide and the metallic substance are fed to the plasma as powders, the metallic substance is selected from the group consisting of aluminum, copper and stainless steel, the   substrate    is of the same metallic substance as that of the powder, the percentage of boron carbide in the plasma   sprayed-deposit    is from 50 to 90% by volume and the thickness of the plasma sprayed deposit is at least 0.5 mm.    3.- a method according to cla-im 2 wherein the boron carbide and the metallic substance particles are pre-mixed before addition to the plasma,   the    particle sizes thereof are in the range of 20 to 200 microns, the boron carbide is from 70 to   90t    of the deposit, by volume and the thickness of   the -deposit    is from 3 to 6   mm.         4. a method according to claim 3 wherein the substrate is degreased and ground before plasma spraying the deposit onto it, the deposit is that resulting from a series of passes of a plasma spray gun with respect to the substrate and the surface of the deposit is ground to desired shape.    5. a method according to claim 4 wherein prior to deposition the substrate is formed with a cavity therein, the deposit is applied to fill such cavity and project heyond a surface of the substrate and the deposit beyond such surface is ground off.    6. a method according to claim 5 wherein the neutron absorbing article is in flat plate   fomm    and the thickness of the deposit after grinding is from 3 to 5 mm.    7. a method according to claim 3 wherein the application of the plasma spray is to a square cross-section tubular substrate.    8. a method according to claim 6 wherein the plasma is an argon plasma.    9. a neutron absorbing article which comprises a substrate of a metallic substance -selected from the group of metals and metal alloys having bound to a surface thereon a plasma sprayed deposit of boron carbide in a matrix of a metallic substance selected from the group of metals and metal alloys in which the content of boric oxide is less than   1t    of the boron carbide.      10. an article according to claim 9 wherein the substrate and the matrix metallic substances are the same and are selected from the group consisting of aluminum, copper and stainless steel, the proportion of boron carbide in the plasma sprayed deposit is from 50 to 90% by volume thereof and the thickness of the deposit is at least 0.5 mm.    11. an article according to claim 10 wherein the boron carbide is uniformly distributed in the plasma sprayed deposit and is 70 to 90%   thereof    volume and the thickness of the deposit is from 3 to 6 mm.    12. an article according to claim 11 wherein the surface thereof is ground   and-smooth.-     13. an article according to claim 12 wherein the substrate includes a cavity filled with plasma sprayed deposit, the surface of which deposit is ground smooth and continuous with a surface of the substrate.    14. an article according to claim 13 in flat plate form with the thickness of the plasma sprayed deposit after grinding being from 3 to- 5 mm.     -15. an article according to claim 14 wherein the boron oxide-content is less   than      0.5e    of the boron carbide.    16. an article according to   claim¯l0    which is in flat plate form.    17. an article according to   claim -10--which    is in tubular form.      18. a neutron absorbing article according to claim 9 positioned with respect to a neutron   elnitting    source so as to absorb neutrons emitted therefrom.    19. a spent fuel storage rack containing spent fuel and a plurality of neutron absorbing articles according to claim 12 positioned about said spent fuel so as to absorb neutrons emitted by it and prevent the undesirable escape thereof.    20. a nuclear product shipping cask comprising a neutron absorbing shielding article according to claim 9.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
