<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0007813
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800206
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
E01B-9/30 <main>E01B-9/30</main> E01B-9/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
rail fastening assemblies.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
true temper railway appliances us<sep>true temper railway appliances, inc.  <sep>true temper railway appliances, inc.111 east wacker drivechicago illinois 60601us<sep>true temper railway appliances, inc. <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
fee graham mcleod<sep>fee, graham mcleod<sep>fee, graham mcleod250 ansel roadgeneva, ohio 44041us<sep>fee, graham mcleod<sep>fee, graham mcleod250 ansel roadgeneva, ohio 44041us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a drive-on rail fastening assembly (10) for securing a  railway rail (12) to an anchoring support (14) therefore is  comprised of a generally s-shaped torsional spring rail clip  (100) and a chain (200) adapted to cooperate therewith.  the  rail clip (100) includes a central leg (102), a tie anchor portion  (104) and a rail bearing portion (106) comprising a pair of  loops on opposite sides and extending from opposite ends  thereof, each of the loops including an arcuate leg (108 or 112)  and a terminal leg (110 or 114).  the chain (200) is adapted to  have the rail clip (100) driven thereon in seating engagement  therewith.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
improvements in rail fastening assemblies the present invention relates, generally, to assemblies for securing a rail to an anchoring support or crosstie therefor. more specifically, the present invention relates to a simplified drive-on rail fastening assembly including a torsional spring rail clip having a generally s-shaped geometrical configuration, and a cooperating chair designed to engage a tie anchor portion of the clip and restrain a rail bearing portion thereof in proximate engagement with the base flange of a railway rail. various and diverse types of rail fastening assemblies are well known in the prior art. for example, it has become commonplace to secure sections of railway rail to a support (i.e. a sleeper or tie) by means of a generally planar fixture secured to the support by a fastener, with a portion, or extension, of the fixture in contact with the base of the rail. such clips are commonly termed compression type rail spring clips. note, for example, u.s. patents no. 3,286,123, no. 3,206,123, no. 3,309,023, no. 3,362,639, no. 3,378,200, no. 3,436,018 and no. 3,477,642, which are exemplary of this class of devices. within the recent past, rail clips have been proposed for anchoring rail sections which eliminate the need for a fastener passing directly through the clip or rail contacting structure itself by employing separate clip and fastener structures. one such class of rail anchoring devices has become known in the art as "pandrol" clips, which are multi-element clips having a plurality of linear sections joined by convolute sections, whereby the overall profile of the clip may best be described as toric in nature. along these lines, see, for example, u.s. patents no. 3,004,716, no. 3,297,563, no. 3,427,700, no. 3,658,246, no. 3,700,167, and no. 4,073,435. numerous other references disclose these or similar railway clips having toric profiles, and having the aforementioned convolute connecting segments between the several linear elements of the clip. yet another type of rail clip which might be categorized as conceptually similar to the "pandrol" clips is disclosed in u.s. patent no. 4,067,495. another variety is that marketed by the tempered railway equipment co. of sheffield, england under the name "springlock". this assembly employs a leaf spring type clip which is restrained in a somewhat horizontal position by an anchoring member, with one end of the clip in engagement with the base flange of the rail, the other end supported by a heel block. other efforts directed toward facilitating the anchoring of rail sections to a support include rotatable camming rail clips, such as those disclosed in u.s. patent no. 3,018,967 which function in a manner similar to a conventional window latch, being comprised of a base plate having the calming element positioned thereon. when installed proximate the base flange of a rail, the clip may be rotated into engagement therewith. with respect to rail fastening assemblies of the prior art employing separable rail clips and chairs therefor (the term "chair" is used herein to denote tie securing means adapted to engage the rail clip in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:    1. a drive-on rail fastening assembly for securing a railway rail, having laterally projecting base flanges, to an anchoring support therefor, said assembly comprising:  (a) a generally s-shaped torsional spring rail clip including a central leg, a tie anchor portion and a rail bearing portion spaced on opposite sides and extending from opposite ends of the central leg, said rail bearing portion adapted for proximate engagement with the face of one laterally projecting flange of a railway rail; and  (b) chair means, adapted to be positioned adjacent said rail and to have said tie bearing portion of said rail clip driven into seating engagement with a portion thereof, said portion of the chair means cooperating with the rail bearing portion of the clip for establishing a torsional spring force on said central leg.    2. a drive-on rail fastening assembly according to claim 1 wherein said generally s-shaped rail clip includes:  (a) a first arcuate leg and a first terminal leg having a free distal end, defining a first loop comprising said tie anchor portion; and,  (b) a second arcuate leg and a second terminal leg having a free distal end, defining a second loop comprising said rail bearing portion.    3. a drive-on rail fastening assembly according to claim 2, wherein said means for establishing said torsional  spring force comprises:  (a) means for applying an upward tensional force on said first terminal leg;  (b) means for applying an upward tensional force on said second terminal leg; and,  (c) means for applying a downward restraining force on said central leg.    4. a drive-on rail fastening assembly according to claim 2 or 3, wherein said chair means comprises a head having:  (a) means for receiving said first loop in seating engagement therewith;  (b) means for applying an upward tensional force on said first terminal leg; and  (c) means for applying a downward restraining force on said central leg; whereby said upward tensional force on said first terminal leg is resolved as a torsional spring force applied at a first end of said central leg.    5. a drive-on rail fastening assembly according to claim 4, wherein said second terminal leg proximally engages an upwardly sloped top face of said flange, said face comprising means for applying an upward tensional force on said second terminal leg which is resolved as a torsional force applied at the second end of said central leg.      6. a drive-on rail fastening assembly according to claim 5, wherein the torsional forces applied at either end of said central leg have opposite rotational senses.    7. a drive-on rail fastening assembly for securing a railway rail, having laterally projecting base flanges, to an anchoring support therefor, said assembly comprising:  (a) a generally s-shaped torsional spring rail clip including a central leg, a tie anchor portion and a rail bearing portion spaced on opposite sides and extending from opposite ends thereof; and,  (b) a chair positioned adjacent a railway rail and adapted to have said rail clip driven thereon in latchingengagement therewith, said chair including means for applying a torsional spring force on at least.a first end of said central leg.    8. a drive-on rail fastening assembly according to claim 7, wherein:  (a) said tie anchor portion comprises a first loop having a tie anchor arcuate leg extending from a first end of said central leg, and a tie anchor terminal leg having a free distal end extending from said tie anchor arcuate leg; and,  (b) said rail bearing portion comprises a second loop having a rail bearing arcuate leg extending from the second end of said central leg, and a rail bearing terminal leg having a free distal end extending from said rail  bearing arcuate leg.    9. a drive-on rail fastening assembly according to claim 8, wherein each of said terminal legs is formed with a divergent end.    10. a drive-on rail fastening assembly according to claim 9, wherein said divergent ends are outwardly divergent ends, said outwardly divergent end on said tie anchor terminal leg having a protuberance comprising a detent for latching said rail clip on said chair.    11. a drive-on rail fastening assembly according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein said chair includes an upwardly projecting head having a jaw on a first side thereof for receiving said central leg.    12. a drive-on rail fastening assembly according to claim 11, wherein said chair further comprises ramp means for applying a static, upwardly directed tensional force on said tie anchor portion.    13. a drive-on rail fastening assembly according to claim 12, wherein said ramp means comprises an upwardly sloped ramp formed on a second side of said chair, opposing said first side.    14. a drive-on rail fastening assembly according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein  (a) said tie anchor portion of said rail clip includes detent means; and,  (b) said chair includes an upwardly projecting head having a recess formed therein adapted to receive said detent means for latching engagement therewith.      15. a drive-on rail fastening assembly according to claim 14, wherein said detent means comprises a protuberance on said tie anchor portion.    16. a drive-on rail fastening assembly according to claim 8, or any claim 9 to 15 when dependent upon claim 8, further comprising a pad disposed intermediately said rail bearing portion of said rail clip and an upwardly sloped face of a base flange of a railway rail.    17. a drive-on rail fastening assembly according to claim 16, wherein said pad is a shim pad interposed between said rail bearing portion of said rail clip and said face of said base flange.    18. a drive-on rail fastening assembly according to claim 17, wherein said shim is a metal shim coated with a layer of an electrical insulation-effective polymer to yield an insulator pad.    19. a drive-on rail fastening assembly according to claim 18, wherein said polymer is high density-polyethylene.    20. a drive-on rail fastening assembly according to claim 18, wherein said chair includes an upwardly projecting head having an internal pocket formed on a first side thereof for receiving one end of said insulator pad and positioning the other end thereof adjacent said upwardly sloped face.    21. a drive-on rail fastening assembly.according to claim 20, wherein:  (a) said means for applying a torsional force on said  first end of said central leg comprises a ramp for applying an upwardly directed tensional force on said tie anchor terminal leg; and,  (b) said upwardly sloped face of said base flange comprises means for applying an upwardly directed tensional force on said rail bearing terminal leg, whereby a torsional force is applied to the second end of said central leg.    22. a drive-on rail fastening assembly according to claim 8, or any claim 9 to 21 when dependant upon claim 8, wherein said chair includes an upwardly projecting head having a jaw for receiving said central leg, said jaw having a bight defined at its upper end by an outwardly projecting lip and at its lower end by a pair of spaced ledges defining a pocket therebetween.     23. a drive-on rail fastening assembly according to claim 22, further comprising an insulator pad having a tab at a first end thereof inserted within said pocket and a rail contacting portion at the opposite end thereof interposed between said rail bearing portion of said rail clip and the face of the base flange of said rail.    24. a drive-on rail fastening assembly according to claim 23, wherein said insulator pad comprises:  (a) a metal shim having a transverse channel with a rectilinear cross section at one end thereof comprising a tab for insertion within said pocket, said channel having a pair of side walls joined by a bottom wall, and an   oblique leg extending from a first of said side walls for contacting the face of said flange;  (b) a coating 6f an electrical insulation-effective polymer on said metal shim.    25. an s-shaped torsional spring railway rail clip, adapted to be driven onto the upwardly projecting head of a cooperating chair, for securing a railway rail to an anchoring support therefor, said rail clip comprising:  (a) a generally linear central leg;  (b) a tie anchor portion comprising a first loop defined by a tie anchor arcuate leg and a tie anchor terminal leg having a free distal end, said tie anchor portion extending from a first end of said central leg and lying on one side thereof; and,  (c) a rail bearing portion comprising a second loop defined by a rail bearing arcuate leg and a rail bearing terminal leg having a free distal end, said rail bearing portion extending from the second end of said central leg and lying on the opposite side from said tie anchor portion to yield a generally s-shaped geometry.    26. a rail clip according to claim 25, wherein each of said terminal legs is a substantially linear leg.    27. a rail clip according to claim 26, wherein each of said linear legs has a central axis, the axes of said terminal legs lying in a common plane.    28. a rail clip according to claim 27, wherein the axis of said central leg is parallel with the axes of said  terminal legs, and is spaced from the plane of the axes of said terminal legs.    29. a rail clip according to claim 25, wherein said clip comprises a unitary member fabricated from spring steel.    30. a rail clip according to claim 26, wherein said terminal legs are spaced from said central leg by unequal distances.    31. a rail clip according to claim 26, wherein each of said linear legs has a central axis, the axes of said central leg and said tie anchor terminal leg lying in a first plane and the axes of said central leg and said rail bearing terminal leg lying in a second plane, the angle of intersection between said first and second planes being not more than   450     32. a rail clip according to claim 31, wherein said angle is not more than   150.       33. a rail clip according to claim 26, wherein each of said linear legs has a central axis, at least two of said axes being skew.    34. a rail clip according to claim 33, wherein the three axes are skewed.    35. a rail clip according to claim 25, wherein said tie anchor portion includes detent means for latching said rail clip on an upwardly projecting head of a cooperating chair.    36. a rail clip according to claim 35, wherein said detent means comprises a protuberance defined by an  outwardly diverging end of said tie anchor terminal leg.    37. a chair adapted to have a generally s-shaped torsional spring rail clip driven thereon, said chair comprising:  (a) anchoring means for anchoring said chair in a support for a railway rail; and,  (b) an upwardly projecting head for receiving a tie anchor portion of a generally s-shaped rail clip in seating engagement therewith.    38. a chair according to claim 37, wherein said head includes a jaw formed on a first side thereof, said jaw being configured to receive a central leg of a said rail clip and provide a restraining force thereon.    39. a chair according to claim 38, wherein said jaw has a bight defined at its upper end by an outwardly projecting lip and at its lower end by outwardly projected ledge means.    40. a chair according to claim 39, wherein said ledge means comprise a pair of spaced ledges defining an internal pocket therebetween.    41. a chair according to claim 38, further comprising ramp means for applying an upwardly directed tensional force on a tie anchor terminal leg of a generally s-shaped rail clip.    42. a chair according to claim 41, wherein said ramp means is formed on a second side of said head opposite from said first side, said ramp means including a sloped ramp face.      43. a chair according to claim 42, wherein said sloped ramp face terminates at a generally flat ramp ledge.    44. a chair according to claim 38, wherein said head further comprises overdrive prevention means for locating a said rail clip on said chair.    45. a chair according to claim 44, wherein said overdrive prevention means comprises an outward projection formed in a face of said head for mating with the tie anchor portion of a generally s-shaped rail clip.     46. a chair according to claim 45, wherein said overdrive prevention means is formed on a third side of said head adjacent said first side.    47. a chair according to claim 38, wherein said head further comprises a recess for mating with a detent on the tie anchor portion of a generally s-shaped rail clip to establish locking engagement therebetween.    48. a chair according to claim 47, wherein said recess is formed on a second side of said head opposite from said first side.    49. a chair according to claim 37, wherein said anchoring means comprises a downwardly projecting shank.    50. a chair according to claim 49, wherein said shank has a rectilinear cross section.    51. a chair according to claim 50, wherein a pair of opposing faces of said shank are formed with a plurality of longitudinally spaced laterally projecting ridges to yield a stepped wedge outer surface thereon.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
