<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0009980
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800416
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
A61B-10/00 G01N-1/10 <main>A61B-10/00</main> 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
urine specimen collecting device.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
shs enterprisesus<sep>shs enterprises, ltd.<sep>shs enterprises, ltd.103 edgewaternewport beach, california 92661us<sep>shs enterprises, ltd.<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
ingram james anthony<sep>kuntz david h<sep>ingram, james anthony<sep>kuntz, david h.<sep>ingram, james anthony2528 littleton placecosta mesa california 92626us<sep>kuntz, david h.11810 bel terracelos angeles california 90049us<sep>ingram, james anthony<sep>kuntz, david h.<sep>ingram, james anthony2528 littleton placecosta mesa california 92626us<sep>kuntz, david h.11810 bel terracelos angeles california 90049us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a device for collecting a urine specimen, which is par足 ticularly adapted for females, is configured and adapted for  use while the user is sitting on a toilet in the normal posi足 tion for voiding.  the device (10) comprises a collector (12)  and a specimen container (14), preferably integrally  assembled together.  in use the device selectively collects  the clean, contaminant-free mid-stream portion of urine in  the container.  the urine specimen container (14) is releas足 ably secured to the collector (12) at a bleed-off conduit (22)  extending from a collection exit (28) in a urine receiving  chamber (20) of the collector (12).  this exit (28) is  positioned in the chamber above a urine bleed-off exit (26)  in the conduit (22) adapted for receiving and discarding the  first-voided portion of urine at a controlled rate.  means  (24,26) are provided for directing into the toilet all of the  voided urine in excess of that which is retained in the  specimen container (14), including the discarded first-足 voided portion.  a suitable handle (18) extends radially  outward from the collector (12) to facilitate holding the  device (10) in the preferred attitude for use.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
improved urine specimen collecting device this invention relates to devices for collecting urine specimens for analysis in the detection and diagnosis of infection and disease. urine analysis is such a simple, common and useful diagnostic aid that the taking of a urine specimen is generally included in even the simplest of physical examinations. it is important not only as an indicator or detector of certain physical conditions and diseases, but it is also particularly useful in connection with the treatment of infections related to the urinary tract, which are much more common in females than males. however, the problem of collecting a suitable specimen is considerably more complex when a female patient is involved. thus, in the collecting of a urine specimen from a female patient, it is important to take the specimen as a "mid-stream" sample. when a female patient voids in the normal manner, the initial portion is more likely to contain contamination from foreign matter than that portion which follows. this is because the initial portion is expelled with less force and usually is voided as a mere trickle which is likely to trail along the labia and pick up whatever contamination is present in those areas. e the mid-stream portion is expelled with the greatest force and is most likely to leave the urethral meatus directly as a stream without contacting the labia or, if it does, the labia will have had most of the contamination washed off by the initial portion. some practitioners go to considerable lengths in an effort to obtain an uncontaminated urine sample from a female patient. with the patient in a reclining position, an attendant cleanses the area adjacent the urethral meatus with a suitable solution in an effort to wash off the contamination which is generally present in that area. even with such precautions, however, contamination may develop in the collected urine sample to a level sufficient to give a false or misleading indication of the bacteria level in the sample. moreover, taking a sample under such conditions is an extremely awkward and uncomfortable experience for the patient and is fairly costly, since the patient is required to be present in the physician's office or a hospital with a special attendant, usually a nurse, administering the procedure. what has been needed is some simple but effective, fool-proof device, preferably disposable after a single use, which a patient can use with a minimum of instructions and without assistance, while voiding in the normal manner. the device should have the capability of receiving the entire amount of voided urine, rejecting the initial portion, selecting a portion corresponding to the mid-stream sample and transferring it to a specimen container, and rejecting the remainder of the voided urine by directing it, together with any overflow from the specimen container, into the toilet on which the patient is positioned in the normal attitude. devices in accordance with the present invention are highly efficient in isolating and collecting contaminant-free urine and are particularly adapted for convenient
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims    1. a device for selectively collecting a mid-stream portion of voided urine comprising an integral collector and specimen container, the collector having a first drain exit and a second transfer exit for different portions of the voided urine, the first exit being positioned near the bottom of the collector for bleeding off the first-voided urine, the second exit being positioned above the first exit for transferring urine following the first-voided urine to the specimen container, the collector including a bleed-off conduit extending between the first and second exits, the specimen container being releasably coupled to the collector to receive urine from the transfer exit, and an overflow passage for disposing of urine in excess of the specimen to be retained in the container.    2. the device of claim 1 wherein the collection chamber is generally funnel-shaped with a cone-shaped portion constituting a receiving chamber and a downwardly depending tubular portion connected to the receiving chamber and constituting the bleed-off conduit, the bleed-off conduit being closed off at its lower end except for a bleed-off exit of limited opening size to limit the rate of urine flow therethrough.    3. the device of claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the second exit comprises a plurality of circumferentially spaced windows  extending about the collector in the vicinity of the juncture between the bleed-off conduit and the receiving chamber.    4. the device of any of claims 1-3 further including means for diverting urine from the receiving chamber away from the second exit until the bleed-off conduit is filled with the first-voided portion.    5. the device of claim 4 wherein the diverting means comprise a generally funnel-shaped diverter configured to be inserted in retained juxtaposition in the lower portion of the receiving chamber and extending downwardly into the bleed-off conduit to overlap the windows and divert urine therefrom.    6. the device of claim 4 wherein the second exit is disposed in a standpipe and wherein the diverting means comprise a shield disposed over the standpipe.    7. the device of any of claims 1-5 wherein the specimen container is   toroidally-shaped    and configured for releasable mounting on the bleed-off conduit in position surrounding said conduit for receiving urine flowing through the second exit, and further comprising a flexible lid sealingly mounted on the specimen container about the periphery thereof and having a central ring opening spaced from the container to define an    opening adjacent the second exit for transferring a specimen of urine into the container.    8. the device of any of claims 1-5 and 7 wherein the specimen container includes inner and outer circumferential walls defining a specimen storage space closed at the bottom and open at the top, the inner wall defining a hollow open space and having an inwardly directed, circumferential rim near the upper end of the inner wall for engaging a mating circumferential recess on the bleed-off conduit of the collector.    9. the device of claim 7 or claim 8 wherein the outer wall includes an outwardly extending circumferential rim near the upper end of the outer wall for engaging a mating circumferential recess in the inner surface of the lid about the periphery thereof.    10. the device of any of claims 7-9 wherein the inner wall is provided with a circumferential recess near the upper end of the wall for sealingly engaging a mating portion of the container lid.    11. the device of any of claims 9-10 wherein the lid is flexible and comprises a downwardly depending outer wall having a circumferential recess extending about the inner surface thereof  for mating in sealing relationship with the corresponding circumferential rim of the container.    12. the device of any of claims 8-11 wherein the lid further comprises an inner circumferential ring defining a central opening, said ring having an inwardly projecting circumferential rim for mating in sealing relationship with a corresponding circumferential recess extending about the inner wall of the container.    13. the device of any of claims   8-12 -wherein    the collector further comprises a circumferentially extending, downwardly directed skirt configured to bear against the central portion of the lid upon the application of force upon the collector in the direction toward the container to deflect the inner portion of the lid into sealing engagement with the inner wall of the container.    14. the device of any of claims 1-5 and 7-13 further including a solid wall portion extending between a pair of adjacent windows in the vicinity of the opening between the lid and container, the wall portion being recessed radially inwardly, the recessed portion extending downwardly along the bleed-off conduit to define, with said opening, the overflow passage for excess urine.      15. the device of any of claims 1-13 wherein the overflow passage includes a third collector exit positioned above the second exit.    16. a container for receiving and storing liquid therein comprising inner and outer circumferential walls defining a storage space closed at the bottom and open at the top, the inner wall defining a hollow open space; and a flexible lid for releasably mounting on said container in sealing relationship therewith, the outer peripheral portions of the lid and container having mating surfaces for releasably engaging adjacent portions in sealing relationship.     17. the device of claim 16 wherein the lid includes an inner circumferential ring defining a central opening, the lid and inner wall of the container having mating surfaces for engaging together in sealing relationship.    18. the device of claim 16 or claim 17 further comprising means for spacing the central portion of the lid apart from the inner wall of the container in a first position of the lid, said means defining an opening between the lid and the inner wall of the container for transferring material through said opening between the interior and exterior of the container.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
