<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0010357
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800430
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<main>F16K-1/22</main> F16K-1/226 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
butterfly valve.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
gen signal corp us  <sep>general signal corporation<sep>general signal corporationpo box 10010 high ridge parkstamford connecticut 06904us<sep>general signal corporation<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
barthelemy paul james<sep>clausing dale robert<sep>libke albert warner<sep>trott donald ross<sep>barthelemy, paul james<sep>clausing, dale robert<sep>libke, albert warner<sep>trott, donald ross<sep>barthelemy, paul jamesroute 2sauk rapids minnesota 56379us<sep>clausing, dale robert517 first street n.sartell minnesota 56377us<sep>libke, albert warnerroute 1royalton minnesota 56373us<sep>trott, donald ross209 15th avenue, s.st. cloud minnesota 56301us<sep>barthelemy, paul james<sep>clausing, dale robert  <sep>libke, albert warner <sep>trott, donald ross<sep>barthelemy, paul jamesroute 2sauk rapids minnesota 56379us<sep>clausing, dale robert517 first street n.sartell minnesota 56377us<sep>libke, albert warnerroute 1royalton minnesota 56373us<sep>trott, donald ross209 15th avenue, s.st. cloud minnesota 56301us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a butterfly valve is provided having a rotary disc (22) in a  housing (60,62) having a valve seat (24) of resilient material.   the seat (24) has an outer wall and an aperture therein.  a shaft  (26,34) affixed to the disc (22) extends through the aperture.  a  ring (36) surrounds the seat (24) and prevents deformation of  the outer wall.  the ring (36) is of material much stronger and  more rigid than the seat (24) and includes a lip defining an  aperture therein in line with aperture.  a cylindrical collar  (42,44) surrounds the shaft (26,34) and is positioned within the  cylindrical lip and supported thereby.  the collar (44) provides  a bearing surface for the shaft (26,34).  the valve seat (24)  further includes a pair of flanges (50,52) on the axial ends  thereof projecting outward from the outer wall.  the ring (36) is  positioned between the flanges (50,52) and spaced therefrom  creating a groove (54,56) on each side of the ring (36).  the disc  (22), the seat (24), the shaft (26) and the ring (36) form a unitary  valve assembly.  the housing is in two sections (60,62), each  including projections (64,66) mating with grooves (54,56) to  hold the unitary valve assembly within the housing (60,62).  the shaft (26) has one end (28) affixed to a hub (29) on the  disc (22) by splines which interfere with the hub (29) by a  maximum dimension of . 030 inch.  the hub (29) has a stress  less than 20,000 p. s. i.  the shaft (26) and the disc (22) are joined  by machining the hub (29) with a hole having a diameter  slightly smaller than that of the shaft (26).  the shaft (26) is  pressed into the hole, such that the splines cut grooves in the  hole.  a retaining ring (108) frictionally engages the shaft (26)  and abuts a bearing (106) to ensure that fluid leaking along the  shaft (26) past a seal (102) does not eject the bearing (106) and  cause injury.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
"butterfly valve" the present invention relates generally to butterfly valves and more particularly to butterfly valves having an improved cartridge type construction with improved bearings for the valve shaft. in the butterfly valve art valves have been constructed wherein the valve seat, the actuator shaft, and the valve disc are removable from the valve as a single unit, thereby facilitating repair of the valve in the field. for example, u.s. patent nos. 2,740,423 and 2,994,342 to stillwagon and u.s. patent no. 3,241,806 to snell, jr. all illustrate such a concept. however, to date, no such valve has been developed which is capable of deadend service; i.e., retaining pressure within a line whc the valve is in the closed position and the conduit cn one side of the valve has been removed. another problem that has existed with such valves is that the bearing required for the disc shafts have been difficult to align. therefore, rather expensive machining operations have been necessary to provide good shaft alignment. the present invention also relates generally to butterfly valves and more particularly to a butterfly valve having an improved connection between the valve shaft and the valve disc. butterfly valves have historically been provided with one of two general types of connections between the actuator shaft and the valve disc. in one type of connection the disc includes a portion of increased thickness running longitudinally down the centre of the disc and the actuator shaft is passed completely through the centre of the disc and pivoted for rotation at the top and the bottom of the valve. while such connections have been generally successful, they suffer from the disadvantage of being relatively expensive due to increased material and machining costs and also suffer from the disadvantage that a onehat increased restriction to flow is presented when the valve is in the open position. a second general type of actuator shaft connection has been generally called a stub shaft connection. in stub shaft butterfly valves the disc includes portions of increased thickness at the top and the bottom of the disc only. the actuator shaft is partially inserted into the disc at the top of the disc and a small shaft is inserted into the bottom of the disc. such stub shafts have been connected to the disc in a variety of manners. in some instances the shafts have been pinned or bolted to the disc. another approach has been to use a broached type connection such as a square connection or a hexagonal connection. such connections have been subject to the disadvantages of leaking, providing protuberances into the flow stream, or looseness of connection resulting in a backlash making it difficult to close the valve tightly, providing poor control with automatic actuators, or even permitting shaft blow out. another type of connection which is known and which tends to overcome some of the aforementioned difficulties is a knurled or upset interference fit between the shaft and the valve disc. in this type of connection
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
   clains:-      1. a butterfly valve comprising:    v a disc adapted to be rotated between an open    and a closed position;  a valve seat made of resilient material, and adapted to engage said disc in said closed position, said valve seat having an outer wall surrounding said disc, said outer wall having an aperture therein;  a shaft having one end affixed to said disc and extending outwardly therefrom through said aperture;  a ring surrounding said valve seat and permanently affixed thereto for preventing deformation of said outer   wall    of said valve seat, said ring being made of a material that is much stronger and more rigid than said valve seat, said ring further including a cylindrical lip defining-an aperture therein, said aperture being aligned with the aperture in said valve seat wall, said lip projecting into said aperture in said valve seat wall; and  a cylindrical collar surrounding said shaft and positioned within said cylindrical lip whereby said lip supports said collar and said collar provides a bearing surface for said shaft.   2. a butterfly valve as defined in claim 1 wherein said ring is metal.   3. a butterfly valve as defined in claim 1 wherein said valve seat is rubber and wherein said ring and said bearing are vulcanized into a unitary structure.   4. a butterfly valve as defined in claim 1 wherein said valve seat wall includes another aperture and wherein said ring includes another cylindrical lip defining  another aperture therein, said other aperture being aligned with said other aperture in said valve seat    all,    said other lip projecting into said other aperture in said vale seat wall;   wherein    said valve further includes another shaft having one end affixed to said disc and   ext endinc    outwardly therefrom through said other apertures and another cylindrical collar surrounding said other shaft and positioned within said other cylindrical lip   whereby    said other lip supports said other collar and said collar provides a bearing surface for said other shaft.   5. a butterfly valve as defined in claim 1 wherein said aperture in said outer wall of said valve seat includes m eans for sealing said outward portion of said shaft from said disc whereby fluid is prevented from leaking along said shaft.   6. a butterfly valve as defined in claim 5 wherein said aperture in said outer wall of said valve seat includes a projection extending inwardly from the walls thereof near the top of said disc, the end of said cylindrical lip and the end of said collar abutting the top surface of said projection, the inner surface of said projection contacting said shaft, whereby   sad    projection provides said sealing means.   7. a butterfly valve comprising:  a disc adapted to be rotated between an open and a closed position;  a valve seat made of resilient material, and adapted to engage said disc in said closed position; said valve seat having an outer wall surrounding sad disc, said outer wall having an aperture therein;  a shaft having one end affixed to said disc and  extending outwardly therefrom through said aperture; ;  a ring surrounding said valve seat and permanently affixed thereto for preventing deformation of said outer wall of said valve seat, said ring being made of a material that is much stronger and more rigid than said valve seat, said valve seat further including a pair of flanges on-the axial ends thereof projecting   outward    from said outer wall, said ring being positioned between said flanges and spaced therefrom creating a pair of grooves, one groove being in each side of said ring;  said disc, said valve seat1 said shaft, and said ring forming a unitary valve assembly;  and  a housing including   to    sections1 each section including a pair of projections on the inner surface thereof for mating with said pair of grooves, said sections being joined and co-operating with said ring and said outer wall of said valve seat to hold said unitary valve assembly within said housing.   8. a butterfly valve as defined in claim 7 wherein said ring is metal.   9. a butterfly valve as defined in claim 7   wherein    said valve seat is rubber and wherein said ring is vulcanized into said valve seat as a unitary structure.   10. a butterfly valve as defined in claim 7 wherein said valve seat wall includes another aperture and wherein said valve further includes another shaft having one end affixed to said disc and extending outwardly therefrom through said other aperture; said disc, said valve seat, said shafts1 and said ring forming a unitary valve assembly.     11. a butterfly valve comprising:  a disc having a hub and adapted to be rotated between an open and a closed position;  a valve seat adapted to engage said disc in said closed position; and  a shaft   havin    one end affixed to said hub and extending outwardly therefrom to permit torque to be transmitted to said disc from a point external thereof, said one end of said shaft including a plurality of splines for securing said shaft to said hub, each of said splines interfering with said hub by a maximum dimension   of .030    inch and said hub having a stress that is less than 20,000 pounds per square inch.   12. a butterfly valve as defined in claim 11 wherein said maximum dimension is .011 inch.      13.    a butterfly valve as defined in claim 11 wherein said hub has a stress of approximately 12,800 pounds per square inch.       a a butterfly valve as defined in claim 11 wherein    each spline has a length approximately one and one-half times the diameter of the shaft   an(    a width from approximately one-quarter to approximately one-third the diameter of the shaft.   15. a butterfly valve as defined in claim 11 wherein each of said splines includes a cylindrical top surface portion and two side walls extending therefrom toward the body of said shaft at an angle with respect to the plane tangent to said top surface portion at the centre thereof, said angle being between 30 degrees and 60 degrees.   16. a butterfly valve as defined in claim 15 wherein said angle is 45 degrees.     17. a butterfly valve as defined in claim 11 wherein said hub includes a plurality of grooves mating with said splines and having a depth equal to the height of said splines for preventing relative movement between said disc and said shaft.      13.    a butterfly valve as defined in claim 11 wherein said disc includes an internal cavity between said one end of said shaft and the centre of said disc for receiving any material removed from the interior of said disc during the process of joining said shaft to said disc.    19. a butterfly valve as defined in claim 11 wherein said shaft has a hardness much greater than the hardness of said disc.   20. a butterfly valve as defined in claim 19   wherein    the difference between the hardness of the shaft and the hardness of the hub is approximately 5 on the rockwell c scale.   21. a butterfly valve as defined in claim 19 wherein said shaft is made of hardened steel and said disc is made of cast iron.   22. a butterfly valve as defined in claim 19   wherein.      said disc is made of a ductile iron.   23. a butterfly valve as defined in claim 11 further including another shaft having one end affixed to said disc and extending outwardly therefrom, said one end of said shaft including a plurality of splines for securing said other shaft to said disc, each of said splines having a height no more than ,030 inch.  24. a method of joining the shaft of a butterfly   alve    to the   valve    disc comprising:  forming the valve disc with a portion of increased thickness relative to the main portion of the disc, said portion of increased   thickness    being formed adjacent the   circumference    of the disc;  drilling a hole in said portion of increased thickness parallel to the disc, said hole having   r    diameter slightly smaller than the diameter of said shaft;  forming splines on one end of said shaft; and  pressing said one end of said shaft into said hole b cutting grooves in the side walls of said hole with said splines thereby forming a permanent joint between said shaft and said disc.   25. a method as defined in claim 24 wherein said splines are formed by cutting grooves on said one end of said shaft.   26. a butterfly valve comprising:  a disc having a hub and adapted to be rotated between an open and a closed position;  a housing having a valve seat adapted to engage said disc in said closed position;  a shaft having one end affixed to said hub and extending outwardly of said housing to permit torque to be transmitted to said disc from a point external thereof;  a seal for preventing fluid from passing between said shaft and said housing;  a bearing for supporting said shaft in said housing, said bearing being at a location where said shaft extends outwardly of said housing, and  a retaining ring frictionally engaging said shaft and abutting said bearing to ensure that fluid leaking along said shaft does not eject said bearing and cause  injury or loss of fluid.    27. a butterfly valve as defined in claim 26 wherein an annular groove is provided in said shaft adjacent said retaining ring   rllerebr,    if said retainer ring were to slide axially along said shaft, said retaining ring   wound    seat   itself in    said groove to   prevent    further axial move   ment.      28. a butterfly valve as defined in claim 26 wherein said retaining ring includes a split ring portion engaging said shaft.   29.   a    butterfly valve as defined in claim 26 wherein said retaining ring includes a circumferentially extending portion   wit    a plurality of radially   inwardly    extending fingers engaging said shaft.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
