<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0015034
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800903
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
A61H-3/02 A61H-3/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
walking aid device.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
stamicarbon nl<sep>stamicarbon b.v.  <sep>stamicarbon b.v.mijnweg 1nl-6167 ac geleennl<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
bougie theodoor henricus marienl<sep>bougie, theodoor henricus marie<sep>bougie, theodoor henricus marieemmastraat 5nl-6101 hd echtnl<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a device to prevent a walking aid from falling over com­ prising, attached to the walking aid, a pair of foldable standing  legs (1) which are joined to the walking aid at their upper ends  by means of an upper hinging joint (11, 18) displaceable along  the walking aid between a lower and an upper position and  are also individually connected with the walking aid by a rod  (14,15) which is hingedly fitted between a fixed lower hinging  joint (21,22) on the walking aid and a fixed hinging joint (19,20)  on the standing leg.  the device according to the invention is characterized in that  the two standing legs (1) in extended condition, in which the  upper hinging joint (11, 18) is in the lower position, constitute  together with the walking aid, on a supporting plane, three  points of support which form an isosceles triangle in such a  way that the projection of the upper hinging joint upon the  supporting place is within the said triangle, and that spring  means are provided which assist the movement of the upper  hinging joint from its upper position to its lower position and  its being maintained in that position.  the device according to the invention is attachable to any  walking aid by simple means.  the standing legs can be con­ structed in a very light material, e. g.  plastics, so that they  hardly add to the total weight of the walking aid.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
walking aid device the invention relates to a device for preventing a walking aid from falling over comprising, attached to the walking aid, a pair of foldable standing legs which are joined to the walking aid at their upper ends by means of an upper hinging joint displaceable along the said aid between a lower and an upper position and are also individually connected with the walking aid by a rod which is hingedly fitted between a fixed lower hinging joint on the walking aid and a fixed hinging joint on the standing leg. one of the most common aids for patients who find difficulty oving about is the walking aid. walking aids have a handgrip or a support, for instance for the armpit, and can be divided into walking sticks, elbow crutches and fore-arm hoop crutches. the walking aid is used to ambulate. when its user sits down, for instance in a wheel chair, then it must be possible for the walking aid to be stood within easy reach. all one-legged aids, however, are prone to toppling, for instance when stood against a wall. from us patent no. 3,999,565 a walking stick is known featuring two or more foldable standing legs which make it possible for the aid to be stood upright and which are so sturdily constructed as to allow the user to transfer his body weight thereonto by resting a knee on a support which can be folded down from the said stick. a disadvantage of this known walking aid is that in ambulating the patient has to carry along the entire weight of the heavy standing leg assembly. the invention provides a device for preventing a walking aid from falling over comprising, attached to the walking aid, a pair of foldable standing legs, which are joined at their upper ends to the walking aid by means of an upper hinging joint displaceable along the said aid between a lower and an upper position and are also individually connected with a walking aidbyarodwhich is hingedly fitted between a fixed lower hinging joint on the walking aid and a fixed hinging joint on the standing leg, the said device not having the said disadvantage and further being attachable to any walking aid by simple means. this achieved in that the pair of standing legs in extended condition, in which the upper hinging joint is in its lower position, constitute together with the walking aid three points of support on a supporting plane, the three points forming an isosceles triangle in such a way that the projection of the upper hinging joint upon the plane of support lies within the said triangle, and in that spring means are provided which assist the movement of the upper hinging joint from its upper to its lower position and its being maintained in that lower position. by these provisions the walking aid can be stood aside in a slightly inclined position so that its centre of gra#vity resides over the area of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
   claims      1. device to prevent a walking aid from falling over comprising,  attached to the walking aid, a pair of foldable standing legs,  which are joined to the walking aid at their upper ends by means  of an upper hinging joint displaceable along the said aid between  an upper and a lower position and are also individually connected  with the walking aid by a rod which is hingedly fitted between  a fixed lower hinging joint on the walking aid an a fixed  hinging joint on the standing leg, characterized in that the two  standing legs in extended condition, in which the upper hinging  joint is in its lower position constitute together with the  walking aid three points of support on a supporting plane, the  three points forming an isosceles triangle in such a way that  the projection of the upper hinging joint upon the supporting plane  lies within the said triangle,  and that spring means are provided  which assist the movement of the upper hinging joint from its upper  to its lower position and its being maintained in that lower  position.   2. device according to claim 1, characterized in that, in the isosceles    0 0  triangle, the angle at the walking aid is between 60 and 90    3. device according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that the  upper hinging joint is composed of an annular sliding member to  which the standing legs are articulated, the said member slidably  embracing the walking aid.   4. device according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that the upper  hinging joint is composed of a lengthwise slotted tube attached  with clamping strips parallel to the walking aid,# inside which  tube a sliding member is disposed, to which the standing legs  are articulated.   5. device according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that the upper  hinging joint is composed of a longitudinal slot in a tubular  walking aid with a sliding member to which the standing legs are  articulated displaceably disposed inside the tube.   6. device according to any of claims 1 to 5, characterized in that the  spring means consist of a helical spring or elastic strap disposed  below the sliding member and connected at one end with the sliding  member and at the other with the walking aid.      7. device according to any of claims 1 to 5, characterized in that the  spring means consist of a helical spring disposed above the sliding  member and stopped at one end by a stop on the walking aid, the other  end pressing against the sliding member.   8. device according to claims 3 and 6 or 7, characterized in that the  helical coils of the spring are wound around the walking aid.   9. device according to any of claims 1 to 8, characterized in that the  sliding member can be secured in its upper position, the securing  means being operable from a point in the vicinity of the handgrip  on the walking aid.   10. device according to any of claims 1 to 9, characterized in that  pulling means are provided to raise the sliding member to its  upper position and that these pulling means are operable from a  point in the vicinity of a handgrip on the walking aid.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
