<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0010066
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800416
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
C07F-9/00 C07F-9/547 A01N-57/18 A01N-57/00 C07F-9/48 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
agent and method for influencing plant growth containing phosphonous acid peptides
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
ciba geigy agch<sep>ciba-geigy ag<sep>ciba-geigy agklybeckstrasse 1414002 baselch<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
baylis eric keith drgb <sep>pickles wilfred drgb  <sep>baylis, eric keith, dr.<sep>pickles, wilfred, dr.<sep>baylis, eric keith, dr.18, abbey grove offertonstockport, cheshiregb<sep>pickles, wilfred, dr.16 aldwyn crescent hazel grovestockport, cheshiregb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
an agent for inhibiting plant growth, in particular a herbicide and plant growth inhibiting agent comprises, in addition to carriers and/or other additives, at least one compound of formula:- <chem> or the corresponding zwitterion form in which r and r1 may be the same or different and each can be hydrogen, deuterium or an optionally substituted lower alkyl group, lower alkenyl, lower alkynyl, cycloalkyl, aryl or heterocyclic radical containing one or more oxygen, nitrogen or sulphur atoms and which may be fused to an aromatic ring, a lower alkyl group substituted by a cycloalkyl radical, a lower akyl group substituted by an aryl radical, a lower alkyl group substituted by a heterocyclic radical as defined above, or r and r1 together form a polymethylene chain optionally interrupted by an oxygen, nitrogen or sulphur atoms, or r1 represents, together with the c(r) -n< residue to which it is attached, the atoms required to complete a heterocyclic radical; and r2 and r3 may be the same or different and each can be hydrogen, optionally substituted lower alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl or lower alkyl substituted by a cycloalkyl radical, lower alkyl substituted by a heterocyclic radical containing one or more nitrogen atoms; a heterocyclic radical containing one or more nitrogen atoms; or r2 and r3, independently, together with the c(h)-n residue to which each is attached, may each represent the atoms required to complete a heterocyclic radical; and n is 0, 1, 2 or 3; as well as the esters and salts thereof and all optical isomers thereof. 
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
agent and method for influencing plant growth containing phosphonous acid peptides the present invention relates to a novel agent for influencing plant growth, in particular to a herbicidal and plant growth regulating agent, and to a process for inhibiting and suppressing plant growth in monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous plants, especially grasses, cereal crops, soya, tobacco and ornamental plants. according to the present invention, there is provided an agent for influencing plant growth, in particular a herbicide and plant growth inhibiting agent comprising, in addition. to carriers and/or other additives, at least one compound of formula emi2.1 or the corresponding zwitterion form in which r and r1 may be the same or different and each can be hydrogen, deuterium or an optionally substituted lower alkyl groups lower alkenyl, lower alkynyl, cycloalkyl, aryl or heterocyclic radical containing one or more oxygen, nitrogen or sulphur atoms and which may be fused to an aromatic ring1 a lower alkyl group substituted by a cycloalkyl radical, a lower alkyl group substituted by an aryl radical, a lower alkyl group substituted by a heterocyclic radical as defined above, or r and r1 together form a polymethylene chain optionally interrupted by an oxygen, nitrogen or sulphur atoms,or r1 represents, together with the c(r) residue to which it is attached,the atoms required to complete a heterocyclic radical; and 22 and r3 may be the same or different and each can be hydrogen, optionally substituted lower alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl or lower alkyl substituted by a cycloalkyl radical, lower alkyl substituted by a-hetero cyclic radical containing one or more nitrogen atoms; a heterocyclic radical containing one or more nitrogen atoms; or r2 and r3, independently, together with the c(h)-n residue to which each is attached, may each represent the atoms required to complete a heterocyclic radical; and n i 0, 1, 2, or 3; as well as the esters and salts thereof and all optical isomers thereof. the a-amino acid residues or esters occurring in the peptides defined above may have the d,l- l- or d- configuration. the term "lower" referred to above and hereinafter in connection with organic radicals or compounds respectively, defines such with up to 6, preferably up to 3 carbon atoms. the above listed radicals r, r1, r2 and r3 optionally may be substituted by one or more functional groups, as for example, free or etherified hydroxy or mercapto groups, optionally converted carboxyl groups, s-substituted dithio groups, optionally substituted amino groups -nr 4r5 - in which r4 and r5 may be the same or different and can be hydrogen or lower alkyl or optionally substituted guanidiono and/or optionally substituted aryl groups or heterocyclic residues. moreover r and r1 as lower alkyl group, aryl group or heterocyclic radical or an aryl group or heterocyclic radical as substituent of r or r1 as lower alkyl group may be substituted by one or more halogen atoms, -nr4r5 groups in which r4 and r5 together form a polymethylene chain containing up to 6 carbon atoms which may optionally be interrupted by
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
what we claim is:   1. an agent for influencing plant growth comprising, in addition to carriers and/or other additives, at least one compound of formula: emi39.1       or the corresponding zwitterion form in which r and r may be the same or different and each can be hydrogen,   deuterium    or an optionally substituted lower alkyl   group     lower alkenyl, lower   alkynyl,    cycloalkyl, aryl or heterocyclic radical containing one or more oxygen, nitrogen or sulphur atoms and which may be fused to an aromatic ring, a lover   alkyl    group substituted by a cycloalkyl radical, a lower alkyl group substituted by an aryl radical, a lower alkyl group substituted by a heterocyclic radical as defined above,  or   r    and   r1    together form.a polymethylene  chain optionally interrupted by an oxygen,   nitrogen¯,    or sulphur atoms,   orl    represents, together with the c(r) residue to which it is attached, the atoms required to complete a heterocyclic radical; and r2   and'r3    may be the same or different and each can be hydrogen, optionally substituted lower alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl or lower alkyl substituted by a cycloalkyl radical, lower alkyl substituted by a heterocyclic radical containing one or more nitrogen atoms; a heterocyclic   ra-? < aw    containing one'or more nitrogen atoms; or r2 and r3, independently, together with the c(h)-n residue to which each is attached, may each represent the atoms required to complete a heterocyclic radical;  and n is 0, 1, 2, or 3; as well as the esters and salts thereof and all optical isomers thereof.   2. an agent as claimed in claim 1 wherein r and r1 may be the same or different and each is hydrogen,   deuter u    optionally substituted lower alkyl, or lower alkyl substituted by cycloalkyl, aryl or by a mono- or bicyclic monoaza-or diazacyclic radicals, optionally substituted by one to three hydroxy or lower alkoxy groups; or r1    represents, together with the -cr-n ( residue to which it is    attached, the atoms required to complete a 2-pyrrolidinyl group; r2 and r3 may be the same or different and each is hydrogen, optionally substituted lower alkyl, or lower alkyl substituted     b    cycloalkyl, aryl, or   b    a mono- or bicylic   monoaza    or diazacyclic radical optionally 'substituted by one to three hydroxy or lower alkoxy groups or r2 or r3 each represents together with the   -ch-n#    residue to which it is attached, the atoms required to complete the 2-pyrrolidinyl group; and n is 0, 1, 2 or 3; as sell as the esters and salts with physiologically acceptable alcohols, or acids or bases, respectively; and all optical isomers thereof.   3. an agent as claimed in claim 1 wherein r and r1 may be the same or different and each is hydrogen deuterium.   methyl, ethyl1 n-propyl, isopropyl, n-butyl, isobutyl, secondary butyl, tertiary butyl, optionally substituted   b    imidazolyl, indolyl, benzyl groups optionally substituted   b    one to three hydroxy groups, lower   alkoxy    lower alkylthio, amino or   carbon    groups or r1 represents together with the   -c(r)-n <     residue to which it is attached, the atoms required to complete a 2-pyrrolidinyl group; ; r2 and   r    may be the same or different and each can be  3 hydrogen, methyl, isopropyl, isobutyl, benzyl, aminobutyl, hydroxymethyl, 1-hydroxyethyl, 2-methylthioethyl, imidazolymethyl, or indolylmethyl, or r2 or r3,   respectivela,    together with the   -ch-n#      #   residue to   which    it is attached, represents the atoms required to complete a 2-pyrrolidinyl group; and n is 0,1,2 or 3; as well as the esters and salts with physiologically acceptable alcohols, or acids   or    bases, respectively; and all optical isomers thereof.     4   ar      a,et    as claimed in claim   1 wherein    r is hydrogen; r1 is   methyl    r2 and r3 may be the same or different and each is hydrogen, methyl, isopropyl, isobutyl, aminobutyl, hydroxymethyl   hydroxyethyl,    2-methylthioethyl, imidazolyl- methyl or indolylmethyl, benzyl or r2 or r3 respectively, together with the -cr-n or -ch-n residue to which it is   attached    represents the atoms required to complete a 2-pyrrolidinyl group; and n is o, 1, 2 or 3; and the esters   anh    salts thereof with physiologically acceptable alcohols or acids or bases, respectively; and all optical isomers thereof.   5. an agent as claimed in claim 1 wherein the agent is in the form of a solid processing form, an active compound concentrate which is dispersible in water or a liquid processing form.   6. an agent as claimed in claims 1 and 5, wherein the content of the compound of formula i is between   0.      'o    95   %.      7. an agent as claimed in claims land 5   where    the content of the compound of formula i is between 1 and 80 %.   8. an agent for influencing plant growth containing as active ingredient l-(d-alanylamino)-ethanephosphonous acid.   9. an agent according to claim 1 containing as active ingredient   l-(l-alanylamino)-ethanephosphonous    acid.   10. an agent according to claim 1 containing as active ingredient l-glycylamino-ethanephosphonous acid.     11. an agent according to claim 1 containing as active ingredient   1- (l-valylamino-ethanephosphonous    acid.   12. an agent according to claim 1 containing as active ingredient   l-(l-alanyl-l-alanylamino)-ethanephosphonous    acid.   13. a method for influencing plant growth, comprising applying to the plants at least one compound of the formula i as defined in claim 1.    14. a method as claimed in claim 9 wherein the plant is a monocotyledonous or dicotyledonous plant and the agent is applied by post-emergent treatment of the sown areas or of the plants.   15. a method as claimed in claim 9, wherein the plant is a grass, cereal crop, tobacco, soya or an ornamental plant.   16. a method as claimed in claim 9 wherein the amount applied of the compound of formula i is between 0.1 and 5 kg of active compound per hectare,for the treatment of existing crops.   17. a method as claimed in claim 9 wherein the amount applied of the compound of formula i is up to 4 kg of active compound, per hectare.   18. a method as claimed in claim 9 wherein a herbicide of the diphenyl ether, phenylurea or triazine series is also used on cereal crops, maize, sugar cane, fruit or in viticulture.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
