<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0014591
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800820
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
G07F-13/10 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
cup dispense assembly.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
vgl ind ltdgb<sep>vgl industries limited<sep>vgl industries limitedcox lane chessington industrial estatechessington surrey kt9 1sdgb <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
beevor harold ggb   <sep>beevor, harold g.<sep>beevor, harold g.111 the aldershanworth middlesexgb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a cup dispensing assembly for a vending machine which  assembly comprises a cup receiving platform (21) for  receiving a cup at a dispensing station in a vending machine, a  cup transport means (31, 32, 33, 34) including a cup carriage  (33) and associated cup support (34) for transport of a cup to  said cup receiving platform (21), reversing means for  reversing the motion of the transport means when the cup is  juxtaposed and supported by the cup receiving platform at the  dispensing station, the arrangement being such that as the  cup is conveyed forwardly towards the cup dispensing station  convergence between the receiving platform and the cup  support occurs so that the cup rides up a surface of the  platform whereby continued forward movement of the cup  carriage results in further convergence between the cup  support and platform to produce relative movement between  the cup and the cup support to an extent sufficient for  disengagement of the cup from the cup support on reversal of  transport means without substantial spillage of the contents  thereof.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
descltion this invention relates to vending machines and has particular reference to cup dispensing assemblies for vending machines. vending machines have, hitherto, dispensed a cup at a consumer receiving station and the ingredients are then dispensed into a cup whereupon the consumer takes the cup from the station. with the development of improved vending systems, a cup transport system may be employed for transporting a cup from a stack to a dispensing station. in practice, the cup is provided with ingredients either on an in-cup basis or from ingredient dispensing stations on route between cup dispense position and the consumer receiving station. various cup drop dispense systems have been proposed for use in conjunction with vending machines incorporating transport means for the cup. where the cup contains either a fine powder or liquid the problem exists in that if the cup is dropped, the powder is stirred up and distributed as a fine powder around the cup dispensing station or liquid is spilled in the area of the cup dispensing station. according to the present invention there is provided a cup dispensing assembly for a vending machine which assembly comprises a cup receiving platform for receiving a cup at a dispensing station in a vending machine, a cup transport means including a cup carriage and associated cup support for transport of a cup to said cup receiving platform, reversing means for reversing the motion of the transport means when the cup is juxtaposed and supported by the cup receiving platform at the dispensing station, the arrangement being such that as the cup is conveyed forwardly towards the cup dispensing station convergence between the receiving platform and the cup support occurs so that the cup rides up a surface of the platform whereby continued forward movement of the cup carriage results in further convergence between the cup support and platform to produce relative movement between the cup and the cup support to an extent sufficient for disengagement of the cup from the cup support on reversal of transport means without substantial spillage of the contents thereof. in a particular embodiment of the present invention closure means may be provided juxtaposed the receiving platform to prevent the cup being returned down the ramp after disengagement from the cup support. the closure means is preferably a spring loaded flap adapted to open to admit cup and carriage and through which the carriage and associated cup-support are returned after disengagement with the cup per se. the closure may be spring loaded to a closed position and the carriage may contain a restraining arm adapted to engage with the closure to maintain it in an open position to permit res of it ::rnage to its datum position. the cup receiving platform may have a substantially horizontal planar surface defining the cup dispensing position and an inclined surface providing the means whereby convergence between the platform and the cup occurs, the arrangement being such that the carriage drives the cup up the inclined surface to the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
   ciaims:-      1.   h    cup dispensing assembly for a vending machine which assembly comprises a cup receiving platform for receiving a cup at a dispensing station in a vending machine, a cup transport means including a cup carriage and associated cup support.for transport of a cup to said cup receiving platform, reversing means for reversing the motion of the transport means when the cup is juxtaposed and supported by the cup receiving platform at the dispensing station,  the arrangement being such that as the cup is conveyed forwardly towards the cup dispensing station convergence between the receiving platform and the cup support occurs so that the cup rides up a surface of the platform whereby continued forward movement of the cup carriage results in further convergence between the cup support and platform to produce relative movement between the cup and the cup support to an extent sufficient for disengagement of the cup from the cup support on reversal of transport means without substantial spillage of the contents thereof.   2. an assembly as claimed in claim   1    wherein closure means are provided juxtaposed the receiving platform to prevent the cup returning down the ramp after disengagement from the cup support.      3.    an assembly as claimed in claim 2 wherein the closure means is a spring loaded flap adapted to open to admit the cup and   carriage    and through which the carriage and associated cup support are returned after disengagement of the cup   ter    se.   4. an assembly as claimed in claim 2 or claim   3    wherein the closure is spring loaded to a closed position and wherein the carriage has a restraining arm adapted  to engage with the closure to maintain said closure in an open position to permit return of the carriage therethrough.   5. an assembly as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the cup receiving platform has a substantially horizontal planar surface and an inclined surface to provide convergence between the platform and the cup support, the arrangement being such that the carriage drives the cup up the inclined surface to the planar surface thereby raising the cup from the support so that on reversal of the transport means the cup support is disengaged from the cup and leaves the cup in a dispensing position.   6. an assembly as claimed in claim 5 where the cup is tapered towards its base to form   a    hollow frustoconical cone in which the open mouth has a greater area than the closed base.   7. an assembly as claimed in claim 5 or claim 6 wherein the cup support comprises a substantially horizontally disposed circumferential part ring element open in a front portion thereof when considered in the direction of forward travel.   8. an assembly as claimed in claim 7 wherein the said circumferential part ring element is provided with a downwardly depending spine portion adapted to provide support at the back of the cup in the direction of forward movement to distribute the pressure on the cup as the cup rides up the inclined plane of the cup platform.   9. an assembly as claimed in claim 7 or claim 8 wherein the spine extends downwardly to the base of the cup.     10. an assembly as claimed in claim 9 wherein the spine includes a forwardly extending portion adapted to engage under the base of the cup to provide positive support of the cup from the base and wherein the cup receiving platform is provided with a central recess in at least the inclined plane portion thereof adapted to accommodate the depending spine, spacing of the recess being sufficient to accommodate the depending spine and cup base support and to engage with the base of the cup to urge the cup upwardly with regard to the cup support ring for disengagement thereof to deposit the cup on the dispense platform.      71.    a cup assembly as claimed in claim 1 and substantially as herein described with reference to and as illustrated in figures 4 to 7 of the accompanying drawings.      12.      a    vending machine comprising a cup transport means at least one cup receiving station, a carriage member operatively connected with said transport means for movement between the cup receiving station and a cup dispensihg assembly as claimed in any preceding claim1 motor means for driving the transport means, control means for controlling the movement of the transport means and a plurality of cups in at least one cup receiving station   wa=nin    each cup contains at least part of the ingredients for forming a beverage, the arrangement being such that in operation the cup transport means is controlled.  to bring the carriage in juxtaposition with the cup receiving station whereby a cup containing ingredients is dispensed into the carriage and the control means thereafter causes or allows the motor means to drive the conveyor and carriage to the cup dispensing station.     13. a vending machine as claimed in claim 12 wherein the cup transport means is a conveyor of the kind described in our co-pending application no. 8789/78.   14. a vending machine as claimed in claim 12 or claim 13 wherein a plurality of cup receiving stations are provided each receiving station being associated with a different ingredient for forming a beverage and further including beverage selection means whereby on selecting a particular beverage the transport means causes the carraige member to move in juxtaposition with the cup receiving station having a cup containing the desired ingredients for dispensing thereto.    15. a vending machine as claimed in claim 14 where at least one ingredient dispense station is provided between the cup receiving stations and the cup dispense station so that additional ingredients is available for dispensing into a cup carried by said carriage.   16. a vending machine as claimed in claims 12 to   15    and substantially as described with reference to figures 1 to 3, 4 and 5, 6 and 7 of the accompanying drawings.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
