<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0012494
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800625
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
C12R-1/19 C07K-14/62 C12N-1/20 C07K-14/61 C12P-19/00 C07K-14/435 <main>C12N-15/00</main> C07K-14/195 A61K-38/27 C07K-14/575 C07K-19/00 C07K-14/005 C12P-19/34 C12N-15/09 C12P-21/02 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
a dna transfer vector, a microorganism modified by said vector and the synthesis of a eucaryotic protein by the modified microorganism.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
univ californiaus<sep>the regents of the  university of california<sep>the regents of the university of california2199 addison streetberkeley, california 94720us<sep>the regents of the  university of california  <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
baxter john d<sep>goodman howard m<sep>rutter william j<sep>baxter, john d.<sep>goodman, howard m.<sep>rutter, william j.<sep>baxter, john d.131 san pablosan francisco california 94127us<sep>goodman, howard m.3006 clay streetsan francisco california 94155us<sep>rutter, william j.80 everson streetsan francisco california 94131us<sep>baxter, john d.<sep>goodman, howard m.<sep>rutter, william j.<sep>baxter, john d.131 san pablosan francisco california 94127us<sep>goodman, howard m.3006 clay streetsan francisco california 94155us<sep>rutter, william j.80 everson streetsan francisco california 94131us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a deoxyribonucleic acid (dna) transfer vector is  provided which comprises a nucleotide sequence coding  for a eucaryotic protein joined to a procaryotic control  fragment, the respective reading frames being in register,  and the respective directions of transcription being the  same.  by connecting a eucaryotic gene to a gene for a pro­ tein normally compartmentalized or protected from intra­ cellular degradation in some manner, the stability of a  chimeric protein may by enhanced.  a eucaryatic gene may  be linked to a gene which has desirable genetic properties.   in addition to the dna transfer vector, the invention also  provides a microorganism transformed by the transfer vec­ tor, a protein synthesised by such a microorganism, and a  method of synthesising a protein.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
synthesis of: a eucaryoti'c protein by a micr'oorg'anism the following applications are incorporated herein by reference: serial no. 897,709, filed april 19, 1978, serial no. 897,710, filed april 19, 1978 and serial no. 898,887, filed april 21, 1978. the government has rights in this invention pursuant to grants no. am-21344, ca-14026 and am-19997 awarded by the department of health, education and welfare. background of the invention developments in recombinant dna technology have made it possible to isolate specific genes or portions thereof from higher organisms, such as man and other mammals, and to transfer the genes or fragments to a microorganism species, such as bacteria or yeast. the transferred gene is replicated and propagated as the transformed microorganism replicates. as a result, the transformed microorganism may become endowed with the capacity to make whatever protein the gene or fragment encodes, whether it be an enzyme, a hormone, an antigen or an antibody, or a portion thereof. the microorganism passes on this capability to its progeny, so that in effect, the transfer has resulted in a new strain, having the described capability.. see, for example, ullrich, a. et al., science 196, 1313 t1977), and seeburg, pwh., et al., nature 270, 486 (19776. a basic fact underlying the application of this technology for practical purposes is that dna of all living organisms, from microbes to man, is ehemically similar, being composed of the same four nucleotides. the significant differences lie in the sequence of these nucleotides in the polymeric dna molecule. the nucleotide sequences are used to specify the amino acid sequences of proteins that comprise the organism. although most of the proteins of different organisms differ from each other, the coding relationship between nucleotide sequence and amino acid sequence is fundamentally the same for all organisms. for example, the same nucleotide sequence which codes for the amino acid sequence of growth hormone in human pituitary cells, will, when transferred to a microorganiam, be recognized as coding for the same amino acid sequence. abbreviations used herein are given in table 1. 'table i dna - deoxyribonucleic acid a - adenine rna - ribonucleic acid t - thymine cdna - complementary dna g - guanine (enzymatically synthesized c - cytosine from an mrna sequence) u - uracil mrna - messenger rna tris - 2-amino-2 datp. - deoxyadnosine tri- hydroxyethyl-1-1, phosphate 3,propanediol dgtp - deoxyguanosine tri- edta - ethylenediamine phosphate tetraacetic acid dctp - deoxycytidine tri- atp - adenosine tri phosphate phosphate fiscs - human chorionic soma- ttp - thymidine tri tomammotropin phosphate tca - trichloroacetic acid rgh - rat growth hgh - human growth hormone hormone the coding relationships between nucleotide sequence in dna and amino acid sequence in protein are collectively known as the genetic code, shown in table 2. table 2 genetic code phenylalanine (phe) ttk histidine (his) cak leucine (leu) xtv glutamine (gln) caj isoleucine (ile) atm asparagine (asn) aak methionine (met) atg lysine (lys) aaj valine (val) gtl aspartic acid (asp) gak serine (ser) qrs glutamic acid (glu) gaj
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims   1.   a dna transfer    vector comprising a nucleotide sequence coding for a eucaryotic protein joined to a procaryotic control fragment, the reading frame of said nucleotide sequence coding for a eucaryotic protein being in register with the reading frame of said control fragment, and the direction of transcription of said nucleotide sequence coding for a eucaryotic protein being the same as the direction of transcription of said control fragment.   2. the transfer vector of claim 1 wherein, upon transformation of a microorganism therewith, a chimeric protein is synthesized comprising an n-terminal amino acid sequence coded by the procaryotic control fragment joined to the eucaryotic protein as the c-terminal amino acid sequence.   3. the transfer vector of claim 1 wherein the eucaryotic protein is insulin.   4. the transfer vector of claim 2 wherein the chimeric protein synthesized comprises an n-terminal amino acid sequence coded by the procaryotic control fragment joined to insulin as the c-terminal   amino- acid    sequence.   5. the transfer vector of claim 3 wherein the eucaryotic protein is human insulin.   6. the transfer vector of claim 1 wherein the eucaryotic protein is growth hormone.   7. the transfer vector of claim 2 wherein the chimeric protein comprises an n-terminal amino acid sequence coded by the control fragment joined to growth hormone as the c-terminal amino acid sequence.   8. the transfer vector of claim 6 wherein the eucaryotic protein is human growth hormone.   9. the transfer vector of claim 2 wherein the procaryotic control fragment is that portion of the e. coli lactose operon comprising the initiator of transcription and initiator of translation regions thereof.   10. the transfer vector of claim 7 wherein the procaryotic control fragment comprises that portion of the. e. coli beta-lactamase gene coding for the initiation of transcription and the initiation of translation regions thereof.     11.   a    transfer vector according to any one of claims 1 - 10, contained, replicated and expressed in a microorganism.   12. a transfer vector according to claim 2 wherein the transfer vector is the plasmid   plri-z.         13.    a transfer vector according to claim 2 wherein the transfer vector is the plasmid pexrgh.   14. a microorganism containing and expressing a eucaryotic gene.   15. the microorganism of claim 14 wherein the eucaryotic gene codes for insulin.      16.    the microorganism of claim 14 wherein the eucaryotic gene codes for growth hormone.   17. the microorganism of claim 15 wherein the microorganism is escherichia coli.   18. the microorganism of claim 17 transformed by the plasmid plri-2.   19. the microorganism of claim 16 wherein the microorganism is. escherichia   coli.      20. the 'microorganism of claim 19 transformed by the plasmid   pexrh, .      21. a protein, synthesized by a microorganism, comprising the amino acid sequence of a eucaryotic protein.   22. the protein of claim 21 comprising the amino acid sequence of insulin.   23. the protein of claim 21 comprising the amino acid sequence of human insulin..   24. the protein of claim 22, synthesized by escherichia coli, comprising additionally a portion of the n-terminal amino acid sequence of escherichia coli   beta-galaebosidase.      25. a protein according to claim 21 comprising the amino acid sequence of a growth hormone.   26. the protein of claim 21 comprising the amino acid sequence of human growth hormone.   27. the protein of claim 25, synthesized by escherichia coli, comprising additionally a portion of the n-terminal amino acid sequence of escherichia coli beta-lactamase.   28. a method for synthesizing a protein coded by a eucaryotic gene in a microorganism comprising the steps of,  a) selecting an expressable bacterial gene comprising  a region controlling initiation of transcription and initiation of translation,  b) providing a purified nucleotide sequence comprising the eucaryotic gene,  c) cleaving the bacterial gene and the nucleotide sequence thereby producing a procaryotic control fragment comprising a region controlling the initiation of transcription and initiation of translation and a nucleotide sequence fragment comprising the eucaryotic gene,  d) joining the control fragment and nucleotide sequence fragment in such orientation that the direction of transcription is the same for both fragments, transcription is initiated beginning with the control fragment and the reading frames of both fragments are in register,  thereby producing a fused gene comprising a fragment of a bacterial gene and a fragment of a nucleotide sequence comprising a eucaryotic gene.    e) incorporating the fused gene into a transfer vector, thereby producing an expression transfer vector,  f) transforming a microorganism with the expression transfer vector,  g) selecting colonies of microorganisms containing the expression transfer vector, and  h) growing the selected microorganism containing the expression transfer vector under conditions permitting expression of the fused gene, whereby the eucaryotic gene is expressed.   29. the-method of claim 28 wherein the bacterial gene contains a restriction site, the gene is cleaved in step c) with a restriction endonuclease, the control fragment thereby produced is modified by exonuclease digestion of unpaired ends and the modified control fragment is further modified by the addition of a synthetic restriction site linker sequence at one or both ends.   30. the method of claim 29 wherein the microorganism is the bacteria escherichia coli, the bacterial gene is e. coli beta-galactosidase, the nucleotide sequence comprising a eucaryotic gene is the insulin fragment pau-1 and the resulting expression fragment is plri-1.     31. the method of claim 28 wherein the nucleotide sequence comprising a eucaryotic gene has a restriction site, the'nucleotide sequence is cleaved with a restriction endonuclease, the nucleotide sequence fragment comprising the eucaryotic gene produced in step c) is modified by exonuclease digestion to remove unpaired ends, and the modified fragment is further modified by the addition of synthetic restriction site nucleotide sequences at one or both ends.   32, the method of claim 31 wherein the microorganism is the bacterium e. coli,- the eucaryotic gene fragment comprises the insulin gene fragment formed by combining pau-1 and pau-2 at their common   alul    site and the expression transfer vector formed in step f) is the plasmid plri-2.   33. the method of claim 28 wherein the bacterial gene has a restriction site, the gene is cleaved in step c) with a restriction endonuclease, the nucleotide sequence comprising a eucaryotic gene has the same restriction site as in the bacterial gene, and the nucleotide sequence comprising a eucaryotic gene is cleaved in step c) with a restriction endonuclease to produce a nucleotide sequence fragment comprising the eucaryotic gene.    34. the method of claim 33 wherein the microorganism is the bacteria eschirichia coli, the bacterial gene comprises the beta-lactamase gene, the nucleotide sequence comprising a eucaryotic gene comprises the rat growth hormone gene and the expression transfer vector formed in step e) is the plasmid pexrgh.    35. the transfer vector of claim   i    wherein the procaryotic control fragment comprises a portion of a structural gene for a protein normally protected from intracellular degradation by compartmentalization.   36. the transfer vector of claim 35 wherein the procaryotic control fragment comprises a portion of the structural gene for a protein normally excreted into the growth medium.   37. the transfer vector of claim 35 wherein the procaryotic control fragment comprises a portion of the structural gene for beta-lactamase.  38. the bacteria- eschirichia   ooli    strain csh-20 containing and replicating plasmid plri-2.   39. the   bacteria    eschirichia coli strain p678-54 containing and replicating plasmid pexrgh.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
