<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0010777
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800514
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B28B-23/00 C04B-24/22 B28B-1/08 C04B-20/00 C04B-28/04 C04B-24/00 C04B-28/00 <main>C04B-20/00</main> C04B-20060101S 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
shaped article and composite material and method for producing same.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
aalborg portland cementdk<sep>aktieselskabet±aalborg portland-cement-fabrik<sep>densit a/ssoelystvej 18dk-9220 aalborg oest dk<sep>densit a/s<sep>densit asdk<sep>densit a/s<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
bache hans henrik  <sep>bache, hans henrik<sep>bache, hans henrik7, kloevervej klokkerholmdk-9320 hjallerupdk<sep>bache, hans henrik<sep>bache hans henrikdk<sep>bache, hans henrik<sep>bache, hans henrik7, kloevervej klokkerholmdk-9320 hjallerupdk<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
shaped articles with a coherent matrix which com­ prises homogeneously arranged inorganic solid particles a  of a size of from about 50 å to about 0. 5 micron, such as  silica dust particles, and densely packed solid particles b  having a size of the order of 0. 5-100 micron and being  at least one order of magnitude larger than the respective  particles a, such as  portland cement particles, the par­ ticles a being homogeneously distributed, especially den­ sely packed, in the void volume between the particles b,  are made from an easily flowable composite material con­ taining a very low amount of liquid and an extremely  high amount of a dispersing agent, such as a concrete  superplasticiser.  test speciments with portland cement-­ silica dust-based matrices with dense packing of the  silica dust have higher compressive strengths than hitherto  reported, and reinforcements such as fibers or steel bars  are subject to a high degree of fixation in the dense port­ land cement-silica dust matrix.  composite material for  making shaped article comprises dispersing agent in  sufficiently high amount to obtain a viscous to plastic  consistency of the composite material with the small  volume of liquid necessary to fill voids between par­ ticles a and b.  the shaping of the composite material  may be performed in a low stress field and without  exhange of liquid with the surroundings.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
the properties of materials having a coherent structure comprising fine solid particles or a coherent structure formed from such particles are mostly strongly dependent on the particle size and upon how densely and homogeneously the particles are packed. with increasing density and decreasing particle size, the mechanical strength, the resistance to chemical attacks, the frost resistance, and the hardness increase. the mechanical strength increases with increasing density and with decreasing particle size. however, in the shaping of an article by deformation of a powder mass, the finer the powder is, the more difficult is it to work with a high particle concentration, because surface forces preventing that the particles slide relatively to each other, become the more important, the finer the powder is. this is especially pronounced for aqueous suspensions of portland cement where the dissolved salts make it difficult to eliminate the surface forces. therefore, it is normally not easy to arrange portland cement particles in water in dense packing when the portland cement particles are too fine. for example, in binders based on portland cement, the powder fineness has become established with a specific surface about 3000-5000 cm²/g (in rare cases up to 6000 cm²/g), and the powder concentration in the aqueous suspension normally corresponds to a water/cement weight ratio of 0.7-0.4 (for very strong concrete down to 0.3). cement which is substantially finer-and which should theoretically give better properties-is difficult to mix and cast, especially in pastes with high cement concentration, and very dense pastes (low water/cement-ratio) based on very coarse cements are not attractive because of the coarse structure and slow hydration. one of the main aspects of the present invention is to improve powder-based binders (especially binders based on portland cement) by adding powders which are one or more orders of size finer than the binder powder (to form basis for a homogeneous and dense particle packing and an extremely finely porous structure) and secure a very homogeneous particle arrangement and a high particle concentration (low water/cement-ratio) by adding large amounts of surface active dispersing agents. this makes it possible, inter alia, to obtain binders which are considerably stronger, much denser, more durable and especially far better suitable for fixation of reinforcing bodies such as fibers and bars than the unmodified binders. also, it becomes possible to shape articles comprising such binder matrices in a low stress field and without any exchange of material with the surroundings, such as appears from the explanation given below. in a very brief form, some basic principles of this invention could be said to be contained in the below four points: 1. the invention utilizes known particle geometry strategy on fine particle systems which are 1-2 orders of magnitude (powers of 10) finer than the portland cement-containing particle systems in which it has so far been possible to utilize the principles. in accordance with the invention, these principles are in particular used on aqueous suspensions of portland cement and ultrafine particles which are 1 to 2 orders of magnitude
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
a process for preparing a shaped article, the process  comprising combining  a) inorganic solid silica dust particles of a size of  from 50 å to 0.5 µm, and b) solid particles having a size of 0.5 - 100 ,µm and  being at least one order of magnitude larger than the  respective particles stated under a), at least 20% by  weight of the particles b being portland cement  particles,   the amount of particles a being 5-50% by volume of the  total volume of particles a+b,     water in a weight ratio between water and particles a+b  of 0.12-0.30 to fill the voids between particles a and  b,  and a concrete superplasticiser, the amount of  superplasticiser dry matter being in the range of 1-4% by  weight, calculated on the total weight of the portland  cement and the silica dust, this amount of concrete  superplasticiser being sufficient to impart to the  composite material a fluid to plastic consistency in a low  stress field of less than 5 kg/cm², preferably less than  100 g/cm²,  and fibers, selected from the group consisting of metal  fibers, including steel fibers, mineral fibers, including     glass fibers, asbestos fibers and high temperature fibers,  carbon fibers, and organic fibers, including plastic fibers  by mechanically mixing at least the above ingredients a, b,  water and superplasticizer, optionally together with  additional bodies which are different from the particles b  and which have at least one dimension which is at least one  order of magnitude larger than the particles a, e.g.  inorganic bodies of compact shape such as sand or stone,  until a viscous to plastic mass comprising the particles a  and b and optionally other particles has been obtained,  whereby the particles b become densely packed, the dense  packing being substantially a packing corresponding to the  one obtainable by gentle mechanical influence on a system  of geometrically equally shaped large particles in which  locking surface forces do not have any significant effect,  with homogeneously arranged particles a in the voids  between particles b,  and thereafter, if the said fibers were not present during  said mechanical mixing, combining the resulting mass with  such fibers and, if desired, with additional bodies which  are different from the particles b and which have at least  one dimension which is at least one order of magnitude  larger than the particles a, e.g. inorganic bodies of  compact shape such as sand or stone, by mechanical means to  obtain the desired distribution of such additional bodies,  and finally casting the resulting mass in the desired shape  in a stress field, optionally with incorporation of  additional bodies which are different from the particles b  and which have at least one dimension which is at least one  order of magnitude larger than the particles a, and  allowing the cast mass to cure to produce a shaped article  comprising a coherent matrix. a process as claimed in claim 1 in which the silica dust  particles have a specific surface area of about     50,000-2,000,000 cm²/g, in particular about 250,000 cm²/g,  and the particles b comprise at least 50% by weight of  portland cement. a process as claimed in claim 2 in which the particles b  further comprise particles selected from fine sand, fly  ash, and fine chalk. a process as claimed in claim 2 or 3 in which the  concrete superplasticiser is an alkali or alkaline earth  metal salt of a highly condensed naphthalene sulphonic  acid/formaldehyde condensate, of which typically more than  70 percent consist of molecules containing 7 or more  naphthalene nuclei. a process as claimed in claim 4 in which the alkali or  alkaline earth metal salt is a sodium or calcium salt. a process as claimed in claim 4 or 5 in which the amount  of the superplasticiser dry matter is in the range of 2 - 4  percent, calculated on the total weight of the portland  cement and the silica dust. a process as claimed in any of claims 4-6 in which the  weight ratio between water and portland cement and any  other particles b plus silica dust is 0.12 to 0.20. a process as claimed in claim 1 in which the additional  bodies are selected from the group consisting of sand,  stone, polystyrene bodies, including polystyrene spheres,  expanded clay, hollow glass bodies, including hollow glass  spheres, expanded shale, natural light weight aggregate,  gas bubbles, metal bars, including steel bars. a process as claimed in any of the preceding claims in  which sand and stone are added as additional bodies.    a process as claimed in claim 1, in which the amount of  the particles a is 10-30% by volume of the total volume of  the particles a+b. a process as claimed in claim 1, in which the fibers  are kevlar fibers. a process as claimed in claim 1 in which the fibers are  polyolefin fibers, preferably polypropylene fibers. a process as claimed in any of the preceding claims in  which the shaped article additionally is prepared using  reinforcing steel as bars or rods. a process as claimed in claim 13 in which the bars,  rods, or fibers are pre-stressed. a process as claimed in claim 1 in which the stress  field responsible for the shaping of the mass is mainly due  to     gravity forces acting on the mass,     or forces of inertia acting on the mass,     or contact forces,     or the simultaneous acting of two or more of the above  forces. a process as claimed in claim 1 in which the stress  field mainly responsible for the shaping of the mass is due  to oscillating forces with a frequency between 0.1 hz and  10⁶ hz, the oscillating forces being of the type stated in  claim 15, or due to a combination of such oscillating  forces with non-oscillating forces of the type stated in  claim 15.    a process as claimed in claim 1 in which the article is  shaped by extrusion or rolling at a shaping pressure of up  to 100 kg/cm². a process as claimed in claim 1 in which the article is  shaped by spraying, painting or brushing, injection or  application of a layer of the mass on a surface and  conforming the mass to the shape of the surface. a process as claimed in claim 1 in which the article is  shaped by centrifugal casting. a process as claimed in claim 1 in which the mass, as a  coherent mass, is poured into a liquid where it displaces  part of the liquid and arranges itself as a coherent mass. a process as claimed in claim 20 in which the liquid is  water, and the mass is paste, mortar, or concrete for  building an underwater structure. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
