<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0006835
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800109
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
G03B-31/00 G03B-31/06 G03B-31/04 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
sound synchronized slide projector and sound synchronizing device for slide projectors
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
gaf corpbe<sep>"gaf belgium", n.v. <sep>"gaf belgium", n.v.hoogkamerstraat 42b-2700 sint niklaasbe   <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
de smet ericbe<sep>de smet, eric<sep>de smet, erictulpenstraat 19b-2700 sint niklaasbe<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
the invention relates to a sound synchronizing device suitable for being easily built in or connected to photographic slide projectors, comprising a continuous sine wave oscillator and a sine wave modificator, cooperating to generate a recordable signal, and a detector for sine wave signals, comprising a filtering device for the sine wave frequency generated by the sine wave oscillator, said detector being able to read, amplify and modify said signal, and thereby actuate the slide change control device of the slide projector.  the invention also relates to apparatuses for the projection of photographic slides, comprising such sound synchronizing device. 
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
sound synchronized slide projector and sound synchronizing device for slide projectors this invention relates to an apparatus for the pro section of photographic slides, allowing the automatic synchronization of the slide change operation to sounds reproduced by a sound recording apparatus. the invention also relates to a new sound synchronizing device suitable for being easily built in or connected to photographic slide projectors of various types. there are presently known a wide variety of systems for synchronizing the projection of photographic slides to sounds reproduced during said projection by a sound recording and/ or reproducing apparatus. these known systems always involve external means for performing the synchronizing of a photographic slide projector on the one hand and a sound reproducing apparatus on the other hand. handling of such known systems is often rather complicated and/or impratical owing to the various connections that are to be established between the projector, the synchronizer and the sound apparatus, owing to the necessity of providing for each unit an individual power source or power source connection (mains or batteries) and owing to the space required by each individual element of the system, either for the installation or for the storing thereof. there furthermore exists a wide variety of different types of projectors and sound apparatuses, complying with a diversity of more or less well defined standards, so that either the known synchronizing units had to be provided with a set of adaptors and selectors in order to make them suitable for different types of projectors and/or sound apparatuses, which resulted in rather complex and expensive synchronizers, or the known synchronizing units had to be kept simple, meaning that they could only be used in connection with a limited number of commercial projectors and sound apparatuses. it is the purpose of this invention to provide an improved system allowing the automatic synchronization of the slide change operation of a photographic slide projector, to sounds reproduced by a sound apparatus, in particular by a tape recorder or cassette recorder, and avoiding the drawbacks of the known synchronizing systems. according to the invention, there is therefore proposed a new apparatus for the projection of photographic slides, comprising a built in system for synchronizing the slide change with sounds reproduced by a sound recording apparatus used in connection with said slide projecting apparatus. according to the invention, such a new apparatus comprises a built in sound synchronizer with a continuous sine wave oscillator and a sine wave modificator, cooperating to generate a recordable signal, and a dectector for sine wave signals, comprising a filtering device for the sine wave frequency generated by said sne wave oscillator, said detector being able to read, amplify and modify said signal, and thereby actuate the slide change control device of the slide projector. such apparatus has the great advantage that the frequency of the signal pulses generated by the sine wave oscillator/modificator device may be specifically selected. thus the signal to noise ratio of the signal pulses may be considerably improved, thanks
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims    1. apparatus for the projection of photographic slides, comprising a built in sound synchronizer with a continuous sine wave   oscillator    and a sine wave modificator, cooperating to generate a recordable signal, and a detector for sine wave signals, comprising a filtering device for the sine wave frequency generated by said sine wave oscillator, said detector being able to read amplify and modify said signal and thereby actuate the slide change control device of the slide projector.    2. apparatus for the projection of photographic slides according to claim 1, in which the built in sound synchronizer comprises  - a continuous sine wave oscillator  - an operatable discontinuous sine wave generator connected to the continuous sine wave oscillator, allowing output signal modification  - a signal output which is connectable to the input of a sound recording   apparatus     - a signal input which is connectable to the output of a sound recording apparatus  - a signal modification detector, comprising a filter for the input signal and an amplifier for the filtered input   signal     - a power amplifier and actuator providing impulses able to actuate the slide change mechanism of the slide projector  - a stabilized power supply feeding said continuous sine wave oscillator, said operatable discontinuous sine wave generator,  said signal modification detector, signal filter and signal amplifier, and said power amplifier/ actuator.    3. apparatus for the projection of photographic slides, according to claim 1 or 2, in which the continuous sine wave oscillator is based on the principle of a "wien bridge" and is built with an operational amplifier.      4. apparatus for the projection of photographic slides, according to any one of the preceeding claims, in which the built in sound synchronizer is adapted to cooperate with a stereo sound recording apparatus, whereby one track of said stereo recording apparatus is used for recording and reproducing sound whereas the other track is used for operating the slide change movement in synchronism with the recorded sound, and whereby the frequency of the signal pulses generated by the sine wave oscillator/modificator device are selected in the range corresponding to the optimum recording/ reproducing performances of the band width of current tape and cassette recorders.    5. apparatus for the projection of photographic slides, according to claim 4, in which the sine wave oscillator/ modificator device generates a sine wave having a frequency of about 1 khz, whereby the input signal filter device has a corresponding selective band pass at about 1 khz.    6. apparatus for the projection of photographic slides, according to any one of claim 1 to 3, in which the built in sound synchronizer is adapted to cooperate indifferently with a mono or with a stereo sound recording apparatus, whereby the frequency of the signal pulses generated by the sine wave oscillator/modificator device is selected outside the audible sound frequency range and   whereby    the sine wave signal pulses are recorded together with sound on the single track of a mono recorder or on both tracks of a stereo recorder.    7. apparatus for the projection of photographic slides, according to claim 6, in which the input signal filter device has a band pass corresponding to the frequency generated by the sine wave oscillator, thus filtering out the audible sound frequencies from the reproduced signal provided to the sound synchronizer.    8. apparatus for the projection of photographic slides, according to any one of claims 2 to 7, in which the slide change mechanism is controlled by a cycle bobbin and the power amplifier/actuator of the sound synchronizer is adapted  to actuate such cycle bobbin controlling the slide change mechanism.    9. apparatus for the projection of photographic slides according to any one of claims   2 to    8, further comprising a timer mechanism for controlling the slide change mechanism, said timer mechanism being fed by the stabilized power supply of the sound synchronizing system ana being connected to the power   amplifier/actuator of    said sound synchronizing system.    10. universal sound synchronizing device to be built in or connected to an apparatus for the projection of pho   tographic    slides, comprising a continuous sine wave oscillator and a sine wave modificator, cooperating   t6 generate    a recordable   signal,and      detector    for sine wave signals, comprising a filtering device for the sine wave frequency generated by said sine wave   osciliator,    said detector being able to read, amplify and modify said signal and thereby actuate the slide change control device of the slide projector, to which said sound synchronizing system is to be   associated.       11. universal sound synchronizing system according to claim 10, comprising :  - a   continuous- sine    wave oscillator  - an operatable discontinuous sine wave generator connected to the continuous sine wave oscillator, allowing output signal modification  - a signal output which is   connectable      'to    the input of a   sou@d    recording apparatus  - a signal" input   which    is connectable' to the,  output of a sound recording apparatus  - a signal modification detector comprising a filter for the   input signal    and an amplifier for the   filtered    input   signa'l       -apowerampl'ifler'and    actuator providing impulses able to actuate the slide change mechanism of the slide projector;    - -a stabilized    power supply   feeling    'said   continuous    sine wave oscillator, said operatable discontinuous sine wave  generator, said signal modification detector, signal filter and signal amplifier, and said power amplifier/actuator.    12. universal sound synchronizing device, according to claim 10 or 11, in which the continuous sine wave oscillator is based on the principle of a   "wien    bridge" and is built with an operational amplifier.    13. universal sound synchronizing device according to any one of claims 10 - 12, adapted to cooperate with a stereo sound recording apparatus, whereby one track of said stereo recording apparatus is used for recording and reproducing sound whereas the other track is used for operating the slide change movement in synchronism with the recorded sound, and whereby the frequency of the signal pulses generated by the sine wave oscillator/modificator device are selected in th range corresponding to the optimum recording reproducing performances of the band width of current tape and cassette recorders.    14. universal sound synchronizing device according to claim 13, in which the sine wave oscillator/modificator device generates a sine wave having a frequency of about 1 khz, whereby the input signal filter device has a corresponding selective band pass about 1 khz.     15. universal sound synchronizing device according to any one of claims 10 - 12, adapted to cooperate indifferently with a mono or with a stereo sound recording apparatus, whereby the frequency of the signal pulses generated by the sine wave oscillator/modificator device is selected outside the audible sound frequency range and whereby the sine wave signal pulses are recorded together with sound on the single track of a mono recorder or on both tracks of a stereo recorder.    16. universal sound synchronizing device according to claim 15, in which the input signal filter has a band pass corresponding to the frequency generated by the sine wave oscillator, thus filtering out the audible sound frequencies from the reproduced signal provided to the sound synchronizer.   17. sound synchronizing device according to any one of claims 11 - 16, in which the output of the power amplifier/ actuator is provided with adapting means allowing it to actuate the specific control device of the slide change mechanism to which said synchronizing system is to be associated.    18. universal sound synchronizing device according to any one of claims 11 - 17, further comprising a timer mechanism for controlling the slide change mecanism of the slide projector to which said sound synchronizing device is to be associated, said timer mechanism being fed by the stabilized power supply of the sound synchronizing device and being connected to the power amplifier/actuator thereof.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
