<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0006282
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800109
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B65D-27/00 B42D-15/08 B65D-27/10 <main>B65D-27/10</main> B65D-27/34 B31B-27/00 B42D-5/00 B42D-5/02 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
improvements in or relating to envelope assemblies.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
moore business forms incus<sep>moore business forms inc.<sep>moore business forms, inc.300 lang boulevard grand island new york 14072-1697 us <sep>moore business forms, inc.<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
greulich kenneth r<sep>van malderghem edmund g<sep>wakeman william r<sep>greulich, kenneth r.<sep>van malderghem, edmund g.<sep>wakeman, william r.<sep>greulich, kenneth r.437 morgan drivelewiston new yorkus<sep>van malderghem, edmund g.533 morgan drivelewiston new yorkus<sep>wakeman, william r.2341 lake roadransomville new yorkus<sep>greulich, kenneth r. <sep>van malderghem, edmund g.<sep>wakeman, william r.  <sep>greulich, kenneth r. 437 morgan drivelewiston new yorkus<sep>van malderghem, edmund g.533 morgan drivelewiston new yorkus<sep>wakeman, william r.2341 lake roadransomville new yorkus<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a stuffed sealed envelope assembly has a free insert  immobilized therein against shifting by means of adhering  material (26, 27) provided on confronting surfaces both the  front and back of the envelope and so characterized that  the material will stick only to itself and not to the insert.  such  material is placed in contact with the insert while remaining  unattached therefrom so as to snugly hold the insert in  registry within the envelope.  removal of an envelope stub  facilitates opening and extraction of the insert.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
background of the inventio this invention relates generally to a self sealed - envelope assembly having a free insert therein, and more particularly to such an assembly wherein the insert is immobilized in place by means of selfadhering material at least partially securing the envelope plies together and in contact with the insert. various types of stuffed sealed envelopes having free inserts therein are known from the prior art. for example, u.s. patent no. 4,010,889, commonly owned herewith, discloses a free insert immobilized in place within the outer envelope plies by means of retention chips bearing against opposed side and end edges of the insert. u.s. patent no. 3,777,971 discloses a free insert being held in place within a stuffed sealed envelope by means of embossments struck from one of the outer envelope plies and presenting shoulders abutting ageinst edges of the insert. still further, in u.s. patent no. 3,339,827, a free insert is immobilized within a stuffed sealed envelope by means of adhesive used in securing the outer envelope plies together. all three of these constructions, however, are to some degree difficult to assemble because of the production accuracy required in assuring that the insert may be extracted without interference. this is a particular problem in the assembly of continuous envelopes in accordance with the aforementioned '827 patent since even a small portion of the glue used in securing the outer envelope plies together will render the insert difficult to extract if the glue touches any portion of the insert. hence, extreme care must be taken during manufacture of the envelope assemblies in assuring that the glue streams are spaced a slight distance away from the peripheral edge of the insert so that such edges are unattached to the glue, as required. other prior art relating to the invention may be found in u.s. patent nos. 3,208,662 and 3,208,663 wherein slef-stick adhesive is utilized for retaining fold-flap envelopes onto a support web without the adhesive sticking to the envelopes themselves. neither patent, however, discloses a stuffed sealed envelope assembly as in the invention. summary of the invention it is an object of the present invention to provide a stuffed sealed envelope assembly having a free insert maintained in registry therein without shifting relative to the outer envelope plies, the construction of such envelope assembly avoiding the difficulties during production and insert extraction experienced with prior art stuffed sealed envelope assemblies having free inserts. another object of this invention is to provide such a stuffed sealed envelope assembly capable of being manufactured quickly and economically as the inserts are placed in contact with the means securing the outer envelope plies together yet remain unattached to such means so as to provide a snug peripheral embrace of the insert and at the same time insure easy insert extraction without interference. to this end, the stuffed sealed envelope assembly is constructed according to one embodiment of the invention with outer envelope plies secured together by means such as a self-stick adhesive applied
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
what we claim is:   1. a stuffed sealed envelope assembly, comprising, superimposed front and back sheets, insert material having peripheral edges lying within the sealed envelope, means peripherally securing said sheets together to form an envelope pocket for said insert material, said means to at at least one pair of opposed edges of said insert material comprising first and second adhesive portions respectively on said sheets which adhere only to each other to thereby secure said sheets together, said portions overlapping opposite sides of said insert material at said opposed edges, whereby said insert material is held captivated within the sealed envelope without shifting relative to said sheets while being in contact with said first and second portions but unattached thereto,  and means in said sheets including a line of weakening inside said securing means at one of said peripheral edges for opening the sealed envelope and extracting said insert material.   2. the envelope assembly according to claim 1, wherein said first and second portions comprise selfstick adhesive.   3. the envelope assembly according to claim 1, wherein said securing means at each of said edges of said insert material comprises said first and second adhesive portions respectively on said sheets which adhere only to each other to thereby secure said sheets together, said portions overlapping said opposite sides of said insert material at each of said edges.     4. the envelope assembly according to claim 3, wherein said first and second portions comprise selfstick adhesive.   5. the envelope assembly according to   claim    1, wherein said means at the other pair of opposed edges of said insert material comprise first glue streams spaced from said other opposed edges.   6. the envelope assembly according to claim 5, wherein said first and second portions comprise selfstick adhesive.   7. the envelope assembly according to claim 5, wherein chip elements abut said opposed edges of said insert material, said chip elements lying between said sheets and being initially a part of said insert material but severed therefrom.   8. the envelope assembly according to claim 1, wherein said means at said one pair of opposed edges of said insert material further comprise glue streams spaced from said one opposed edges, said first and second adhesive portions lying inwardly of said glue streams.   9. the envelope assembly according to claim 5, wherein said means at said one pair of opposed edges of said insert material further comprise second glue streams spaced from said one opposed edges, said first and second portions lying inwardly of said second glue streams.     10. the envelope assembly according to claim 3, wherein said securing means at each of said edges of said insert material further comprise glue streams spaced from said edges, said first and second portions lying inwardly of said glue streams.   11. a stuffed sealed envelope assembly, comprising superimposed front and back sheets and an insert disposed therebetween, adhesive means securing said sheets together at the periphery thereof including first and second securing means of like material in confronting relationship respectively on said plies, said material being characterized so as to adhere only to itself upon said first and second means contacting one another, said material on each of said sheets lying both outwardly and inwardly of at least one pair of opposing edges of said insert, said material which lies outwardly of said edges thereby adhering to itself for securing said sheets together, said insert thereby being held immobilized between said sheets while being in contact with said first and second means but unattached thereto,  and means in said sheets forming a removable stub extending inwardly of said material at one of said edges for opening the envelope upon removal and extracting the insert therefrom.   12. the envelope assembly according to claim 11, wherein said material comprises self-stick adhesive.   13. the envelope assembly according to claim 11, wherein said material on each of said sheets lies outwardly and inwardly of the other pair of opposing edges of said insert, said material which lies  outwardly of said edges thereby adhering to itself for securing said sheets together.   14. the envelope assembly according to claim 11, wherein said means at the other pair of opposed edges of said material insert comprise first glue streams spaced from said other opposed edges.   15. the envelope assembly according to claim il, wherein said means at said one pair of opposed edges of said insert comprise glue streams spaced from said opposed edges, said material lying inwardly of said dlue streams.   16. the envelope assembly according to claim 14, wherein said means at said one pair of opposed edges of said insert further comprise second glue streams spaced from said opposed edges, said material lying inwardly of said second glue streams.   17. the envelope assembly according to claim 13, wherein said means at each of said edges of said insert further comprise glue streams spaced from said edges, said material lying inwardly of said glue streams.   18. an assembly of stuffed sealed envelopes, comprising, superimposed upper, intermediate and lower continuous plies respectively defining envelope fronts, inserts and envelope backs delimited by cross lines of weakening in said plies, first and second securing means of like material in confronting relationship respectively on said front and back plies, said material being characterized so as to  adhere only to itself upon said first and second means contacting one another, portioils of opposing side edges of said inserts being spaced inwardly of said lines of weakening, said material on said fronts and backs lying both outwardly and inwardly of opposing end edges and said side edge portions of said inserts, said material which lies outwardly of said edges thereby adhering to itself for securing said fronts and backs together,   said inserts thereby being held snuggly in place without shifting between said fronts and backs by said material while being in contact therewith but being unattached thereto, and means on said fronts and backs for opening the envelopes and extracting said inserts.   19. the assembly according to claim 18, wherein said intermediate ply has connecting portions extending between said side edges of adjacent inserts, said connecting portions being severed from said inserts by cuts extending through one of said upper and lower plies.   20. the assembly according to claim 18, wherein said material comprises self-stick adhesive.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
