<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0007147
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800123
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B29C-44/34 D06B-1/00 B05B-13/04 B05B-13/02 B29C-44/46 D06B-1/02 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
liquid dispenser and process for dispensing liquid reaction mixtures onto web or sheet material.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
ici ltdgb<sep>imperial chemical industries plc<sep>imperial chemical industries plcimperial chemical house, millbanklondon sw1p 3jfgb<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
buckley geoffrey gb<sep>edwards harry gb  <sep>hardman gordongb<sep>buckley, geoffrey<sep>edwards, harry<sep>hardman, gordon<sep>buckley, geoffreyingle nook grain roadshaw, oldham ol2 8hzgb<sep>edwards, harrydobroyd windlehurst road hawk greenmarple cheshiregb<sep>hardman, gordon10 valdene driveworsley manchester m28 4fegb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
the invention relates especially to foam-backed carpets  and to the provision of a foam backing of even thickness.  a liquid dispenser is provided in which a spray head (10)  attached to a reciprocating carriage (14) is permitted limited  free movement relative to the carriage and transversely to a  direction of advancement of web or sheet material (18), onto  which the liquid is to be dispensed, when the carriage (14) is  decelerated prior to reversal of its direction of motion.  it can  be used for backing carpets with foamable compositions at  high speed.  the invention also includes a process for dispensing  liquids onto web or sheet material.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
this invention relates to a liquid dispenser and to a process for dispensing liquid reaction mixtures onto web or sheet material. in known apparatus for dispensing liquid reaction mixtures, for example, plastic foam-forming mixtures, on semi-continuous web material, the mixture is deposited on the web material from a distributor fixedly secured to a carriage which traverses the web material in a reciprocating motion while the web material is being continuously advanced by a conveyor in a horizontal plane. such apparatus is described in german offenlegungsschrift (ales) 26 53 829. the carriage may be driven along a rail mounted transversely above the conveyor by a chain drive which is reversed by an electromagnetic clutch. alternatively the carriage may take the form of a reciprocating ram actuated by hydraulic, pneumatic or hydropneumatic cylinders. all these devices suffer from inertia effects and very high inertial "turn-round" forces. a practical consequence of this is that while the carriage can for the most part be driven at constant speed across the conveyor, in the marginal regions the carriage requires to be decelerated, momentarily stopped to reverse its direction of motion, and accelerated up to constant speed in the reverse direction. since the reaction mixture is normally dispensed at a constant rate the outcome is a greater deposition of liquid reaction mixture in the marginal regions. the present invention assists in smoothing out this marginal or "edge" build-up of reaction mixture. thus according to the present invention we provide apparatus for dispensing a liquid reaction mixture onto web or sheet material, e.g. semi-continuous web material, which comprises a carriage constructed and arranged to be driven in a reoiprocating motion transversely to a direction of advancement of web or sheet material, and, attached to the carriage, a distributor connectable to a supply of the reaction mixture for depositing the reaction mixture onto the web or sheet material, the distributor being attached to the carriage by attachment device which permits limited free movement of the distributor relative to the carriage and transversely to the direction of advancement of the web or shect material when the carriage is decelerated prior to reversal of its direction of caotiiop, the invention also includes processes for dispensing liquid reaction mixtures onto web or sheet material using the apparatus as above described and web or sheet material to which a liquid reaction mixture has been applied by the aforesaid apparatus or processes. by "transversely to the direction of advancement" we mean having a component of motion at right angles to that direction. ideally the distributor should continue to travel at constant speed in the marginal regions. in theory this might be achieved by allowing the free movement of the distributor to continue under its own momentum until the carriage has regained constant speed in a reverse direction and at that point prevent further movement of the distributor relative to the carriage. thus the direction of motion of the distributor would be reversed essentially without the distributor losing speed. in practice, however, it is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims   1. apparatus for dispensing a liquid reaction mixture onto web or sheet material, which comprises a carriage constructed and arranged to be driven in a reciprocating motion transversely to a direction of advancement of web or sheet material, and, attached to the carriage, a distributor connectable to a supply of the reaction mixture for depositing the reaction mixture onto the web or sheet material, characterised in that the distributor is attached to the carriage by an attachment device which permits limited free movement of the distributor relative to the carriage and transversely to the direction of advancement of the web or sheet material when the carriage is decelerated prior to reversal of its direction of motion.   2. apparatus as claimed in claim 1 in which limit stops provide two rest positions for the distributor relative to the carriage and between which rest positions the distributor is permitted free movement, the distributor occupying the rest positions alternately as the carriage reciprocates and moving from one rest position to the other each time the carriage  decelerates prior to reversal of its direction of motion.   3. apparatus as claimed in claims 1 or 2 in which the attachment device is a lightweight horizontal boom which is pivoted at one end of the carriage and at the other end carries the   dtstributor,    free movement of the distributor being accomplished through pivotal movement of the boom.   4. apparatus as claimed in claim 3 in which the distributor is carried on a plate pivotally mounted on the boom and in which two parallel arms of equal length, one either side of the boom,   form a    pivotable parallelogram linkage with the carriage and plate.   5. apparatus as claimed in claims 1 or 2 in which the attachment device comprises two lightweight parallel arms of equal length each pivoted at one end to the carriage and at the other end to a plate carrying the distributor.   6. apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims in which the distributor is retained in a rest position relative to the carriage by a detent attached to the carriage and biased towards a position for engagement with a catch member in fixed relationship to the distributor, a release member being arranged to displace the detent to a position for disengagement of the catch member prior to deceleration of the carriage.   7. apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5 in which the distributor is retained in a rest position relative to the carriage by a pneumatically or hydraulically controlled piston attached to the carriage, there being provided a mechanism for applying gaseous or liquid pressure to the piston and a mechanism for releasing the pressure from the piston prior to. deceleration of the carriage.   8. apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5 in which the distributor is retained in a rest position relative to the carriage by a ratchet attached to the carriage for  engagement with a pawl located on the attachment device, a mechanism being provided to disengage the ratchet and pawl prior to deceleration of the carriage.    9. process for dispensing a liquid reaction mixture onto web or sheet material which comprises  (a) advancing web or sheet material in a first line  of motion,  (b) feeding a supply of liquid reaction mixture to  a distributor attached to a carriage which is  drivably mounted for reciprocation in a second  line of motion transverse to the first line of  motion of the sheet or web material,  (c) depositing the liquid reaction mixture on the web  or sheet material from the distributor while the  carriage is reciprocated, and  (d) thereafter allowing the mixture to react, the  distributor being allowed to move freely relative  to the carriage and transversely to the line of  motion of the web or sheet material while the  carriage is decelerated prior to reversal of  its direction of motion.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
