<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0016883
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19801015
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
G10H-1/38 G10H-1/18 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
organ circuit and method of operation.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
kimball int<sep>kimball international, inc.<sep>kimball international, inc.1549 royal street p.o. box 460jasper indiana 47546us<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
howell stephen louisus<sep>howell, stephen louis<sep>howell, stephen louisr.r. no. 1, box 176ajasper indiana 47546us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
an electronic organ having a keyboard (10) comprising a  plurality of playing keys arranged in octaves with correspond足 ing keys in each octave being associated with the same note  name, a note collector (70) operatively associated with said  keyboard (10) for developing a multiple bit binary word wherein  the individual bit locations of the word correspond, respective足 ly, to individual groups of the keys associated with a particular  note name, said collector (70) producing a key-down logic lev足 el at the bit locations in the word corresponding to a plurality of  actuated keys of the corresponding note names anywhere on  the keyboard (10) and an encoder (68) connected to the col足 lector (70) and responsive to the binary word for producing a  respective control signal for each of a plurality of the binary  words.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
organ circuitand method of operation the present invention relates to an electronic organ, and to a method of operation thereof, and is particularly concerned with a modification in organ circuitry that represents the transition from an easy play organ to a conventional organ. many organs embody easy play features for novices in which, for example, the depressing of a single key of the accompaniment portion of the organ keyboard results in the sounding of a chord in the accompaniment portion or section.of the organ keyboard. as skill is developed in respect ox playing an organ, it becomes desirable for the player to commence to develop chords b depressing a plurality of keys in the accompaniment portion of the organ keyboard. eventually, the depressing of a plurality of keys in the accompaniment section of the keyboard of the organ will result in the player developing the nec ossuary skills to play chords in the proper manner and in the several inversions thereof. however, along with the circuit arrangement that permits chords to be played by the depression of a single key in the accompaniment section of the organ keyboard, there is often provided an arrangement which causes pedal tones to sound in response to the depression of the single accompaniment manual key referred to while it is also known to cause the depression of the single key referred to together with the depression of a key in the right hand section of the organ keyboard to cause fill" notes to sound in the solo section of the organ keyboard, preferably, within an octave beneath the solo note that is depressed. when such an organ is adjusted so that the organ player is able to depress a plurality of keys in the accompaniment section to produce chords, the lastmentioned features are lost, and the entire organ plays in a conventional manner. the loss of the easy play features, such as automatic pedal tones and automatic fill notes, as well as other attractive automatic features, make it difficult for tfle novice or beginner to advance in the art of playing the organ in a step by step manner. at the present time, the player. must either employ all of the easy play features together or must forego at least the impbrtant ones if it is desired to expand the technique of manipulating the accompaniment section beyond the playing of single notes. with the foregoing in mind, the primary objective of the present invention is the provision, in an electronic organ, to permit the organ player to take advantage of automatic features built into an organ while still developing playing techniques, especially pertaining to the left hand or accompaniment manual or accompaniment section of the organ. according to the present invention, an electronic organ circuit is provided in which conventional operation of the organ can be had with roach key controlling a respective pitch or in which the organ can be switched over for automatic operation with certain ones of the keys of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
    claims       1. in an electronic organ having a keyboard comprising a plurality of playing keys arranged in octaves with corresponding keys in each octave being associated with the same note name, the improvement comprising: note collector means op   eratively    associated with said keyboard for   develop-    ing a multiple bit binary word wherein the individual bit locations of sad word correspond,   respectivelyr    to individual groups of said keys associated with a particular note name, said collector means producing a keydown logic level at the bit locations in said word corresponding to a plurality of actuated keys of the corresponding note names anywhere on said   wey-    board,  and encoder means connected to said collector means and responsive to said binary word for producing a respective control   signal    for each of a plurality of said binary   words     2. the electronic organ of claim 1 wherein said control signals are binary controlled   woras,    and including:  key encoding means connected to   said    playing keys and operable to develop a respective binary control word in response to an actuation of a playing-key, data selector means having an input connected to each encoder means and having an out- put, and also having a control terminal for connecting the inputs selectively to said output, and mode selector means having respective positions in which each said encoder means is effective and the data selector control terminal is actuated to cause the binary   control    word developed   sy the effectnv2    encoder means to be applied to the output of said data selcctor.    3. . an electronic organ according to claim 1 or claim 2 in which said   encoder      means      includes    a decimal  encoder connected to the playing keys and a decimal to binary converter connected to the decimal encoder and developing said control signals.    4. an electronic organ according to   antof    claims 1 to 3 in which said encoder means includes a decimal encoder comprising a matrix having a pair of lines for each said key and another line intersecting said pairs of lines, diodes connecting said lines at the   pdints    of intersection thereof, said decimal to binary converter comprising terminals at which said control signal is developed and connected via diodes to groups of said other lines.    5. an electronic organ according to any of claims 1 to 5 in which said encoder means comprises a first memory having an input terminal for each said playing key, note collector means for supplying a signal to the respective input   terminal    in response to the depression of any of the correspondingly named playing keys, said memory having a plurality of output terminals at each of   which    there.is developed        signal in response to the depression of a   piedetermined    group of keys, a second memory for converting the output of the first memory to binary form,  said second memory   hav-    ing input terminal means connected to the input terminals of said first memory and having output terminal means at which at said control signal is developed for each signal supplied thereto from said first memory.    6. an electronic organ according to claim 5 in which   each    said note collector means is formed by a circuit branch comprising a diode and a switch in series for each of the respective playing keys and connected in parallel between a source of voltage and ground, and a connection from a point on each note collector means which changes in   ^voltage     when one of the pertaining playing keys is depressed to actuate the respective switch to the respective input terminal of said first memory.    7. an electronic organ according to claim 2 in which said organ includes automatic play features under the control of the control   word    at the output of said data selector.      s.    an electronic organ according to claim 2 in which said selector means also has a position in which neither encoder means is effective and, instead, the playing keys are operable for actuating respective keyers to control the production of sound.    9. in an electronic organ having a   keyboard    comprising a plurality of playing keys consisting of a plurality of groups of named playing keys with the corresponding playing keys in each group being associated with the same note name, the improvement being a   m3tho;    of operation comprising:   receiving from the keys   2      plurality    of signals wherein the   individual'signals    each pertain to the   playing    keys of a respective name which are depressed, storing a   plurality    of   binary    code   words    corresponding, respectively, to a   plurality    of chords,   recogn zing    a plurality of combinations of the signals received   from    the keyboard and its respective chords and being operable, in response to a given combination of said signals, to select the said stored code word corresponding to the chord associated with the given recognized combin- ation of signals.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
