<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0007169
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800123
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B67C-3/02 B67C-3/26 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
improvements relating to filling heads of filling machines for charging quantities of liquid into containers, and filling machines including such heads.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
cargo fleet chemical cogb <sep>cargo fleet chemical co. limited<sep>cargo fleet chemical co. limited eaglescliffe industrial estate eaglescliffe stockton cleveland gb<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
smith douglas james broadhurstgb<sep>smith, douglas james broadhurst<sep>smith, douglas james broadhurst11 dunottar avenueeaglescliffe stockton on teesgb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
filling heads of filling machines for charging quantities of  liquid into containers and filling machines including such  heads, wherein there is a dispensing head which registers  with the top of the container (52) to be filled, the container is  raised to lift the discharge head, the liquid is dispensed into  the container and the subsequent lowering of the discharge  head when the container has been filled creates a partial  vacuum effect in discharge passages (70) through which the  liquid is dispensed to prevent dripping or flowing of residual  liquid into the container.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
this invention relates to filling assemblies of filling machines for charging quantities of liquid into containers, and filling machines including such assemblies. filling machines are widely used in industry, because there are many liquids sold in quantities in individual containers. such liquids include drinks, washing up liquids, oils, paints to name but a few. in the filling of wide mouth containers such as cans, it is customery to use a filling assembly which has a plurality of discharge passage from which the liquid is discharged into the can (usually held sealingly to the assembly) at an angle so that the issuing liquid will impinge onto the inner wall of the can and run dot the wall; this method of filling avoid frothing or excess frothing of the liquid in the can. with the constant demand for ever higher rates of filling. the number and diameter of the said passages has tended, with the passage of time, to increase to such an extent that it is not uncommon for a filling assembly for filling cans with beer to have twelve passages each of a diameter of the order of 8 mm. there is however a limiting factor on the size and number of the passages. desirably, residual liquid should remain by capillary action in the passages after each charging operation, but if the passage diameter is too large, this will not happen or will happen only in some of the passages with the result that the amount of liquid in any container may lie within significantly wide tolerances, which means irregular filling from container to container, which in turn means that a filler usually has to overfull, resulting in either loss of profits or eventual loading of the price to the consumer. when one realises that a filling machine may have as many as 100 filling assemblies, and that in a brewery it may be filling cans with beer 24 hours a day, it will be appreciated that the loss or consumer charge loading which can result from overfilling can be quite considerable. it is clearly desirable therefore that filling assemblies of liquid filling machines should operate to control more accurately the quantity of liquid discharged into each container at each operation of the or each filling assembly and the present invention aims at providing a filling assembly with this objective in view. according to the present invention there is provided a filling assembly for a filling machine adapted to fill containers with liquid through the filling assembly, said assembly comprising a discharge head which is adapted to engage, fit over or otherwise co-operate with the mouth or open top of each container to be filled, said discharge head defining a plurality of discharge passages through which the liquid is discharged in being charged into the container, and communicating with a liquid chamber jointly defined by the discharge head and a discharge head guide, said discharge head being slidable relative to the guide, the assembly being adapted so that in use
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
   clp.lu      1. a filling assembly for a filling machine adapted to fille containers with liquid through the filling assembly said assembly comprising a discharge head which is adapted to engage, fit over or otherwise co-operate with the mouth or open top of each container to be filled, said discharge head defining a plurality of discharge passages through which the liquid is discharged in being charged into the container,  and communicating with a liquid chamber jointly defined by the discharge head and a discharge head guide,   slid    discharge head being slidable relative to the guide,   ne    assembly being adapted so that in use it is located   abate    the open mouth or open top of a container to be    illed,    the discharge head and container are moved together so that the container mouth engages the discharge head which is displaced upwards relative to the guide, and after filling by charging the liquid through the chamber and the said passages, the container and head move apart which causes downward movement of the discharge head relative to the guide,  which creates a partial vacuum effect in said chamber and   thereby    residual liquid in said passages is held in the passages or is drawn into the said chamber by virtue of the said partial vacuum effect.   2. a filling assembly according to claim 1 wherein the assembly is adapted for the filling of cans having open tops, the discharge head has a collar   provided    with a groove sealingly to receive the open can top and a vent passage to allow venting of air as the can is being filled.   3. a filling assembly according to claim 2, wherein the said discharge passages are arranged so that the liquid issues therefrom to impinge on the can wall at a suitable angle having regard to the liquid being charged into the can  4. a filling   assembly    according to claim 1, wherein the assembly is adapted for filling bottles, the discharge head has a collar having a recess into which the bottle bears upon a sealing ring of the collar, the collar further having a vent for venting air from the bottle when it is being filled with liquid.   5. a filling assembly according to claim 4, wherein discharge head includes a poppet member having the discharge   passages    in the lower end thereof leading from a bore therein, said bore   communicating    at the top end with said chamber, and the member being slidably located in the collar.   6. a filling assembly according to claim 5, wherein said poppet member is spring loaded to a position in which the said discharge passages are blocked by the bore of the collar in which the poppet member slides, but is displaceable downwards by the guid when the discharge head is displaced upwards.    7. a filling assembly according to any preceding claim, wherein the said guide has a bore through which liquid is passed in being delivered to the discharge passages, flow through said bore normally being blocked by a one-way valve   which    opens by virtue of the pressure in the liquid being delivered to the discharge passages.   8. a filling assembly substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to figure 1 or figure 2 of the   accom.pantlng    drawings.   9. a filling machine including a plurality of filling  assemblies, each according to any one of the preceding claims.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
