<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0017362
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19801015
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B29D-11/00 B29C-44/02 B29C-44/16 B29C-33/30 B29C-37/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
method for producing lightweight mirrors with curved reflecting surfaces.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
leach roger john<sep>leach, roger john<sep>leach, roger john25 the precincthust park west molesey, surreygb<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
leach roger john<sep>leach, roger john<sep>leach, roger john25 the precincthust park west molesey, surreygb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
 lightweight articles with curved reflecting surfaces and  especially suitable for use as rear view mirrors for motor  vehicles are obtained by a method comprising   (i) providing a flexible laminate 32 comprising a transpa­ rent plastics sheet and a layer of reflecting material bonded  to one face thereof,   (ii) drawing a zone of said laminate into a curved profile  by the application of differential fluid pressure across it, in  known manner,   (iii) while maintaining said zone in said drawn curved  profile by application of differential fluid pressure, applying  to the face of the curved zone of laminate opposite the face  comprising the transparent plastics sheet coating of a liquid  composition which cures to a tough resin and causing or  allowing the composition to set to form a tough resinous  layer 54 bonded to and supporting said drawn zone, and   (iv) introducing into an enclosed mould a wall of which is  provided by said resinous layer a material which reacts to  form a rigid plastics foam and causing or allowing said  material to foam to fill the mould and set and thereby  become bonded as a moulded rigid foamed plastics backing  58 to the resinous layer.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
this invention relates to a method for producing lightweight articles having curved reflecting surfaces, and is especially but not exclusively directed to producing lightweight mirrors having a curved reflecting surface. it has been proposed to produce a lightweight mirror having a curved mirror surface by forming an enclosed circular or spherical envelope of metallised plastics film, inflating it to the desired contour and then applying to the outside of the inflated envelope a liquid formulation which will foam and set to yield a rigid plastics foam which in effect rigidifies the inflated envelope. the required mirror is then cut from the product. this method of production, however, has many disadvantages. firstly, for large mirrors it may be necessary in order to obtain a sphere of appropriate size to join together two or more sheets of metallised plastics to form the envelope and as the joints will appear as irregularities or distortions in the reflecting surface of the finished product, any sections cut from the sphere to provide mirrors must avoid these joints and thus much of the surface of the sphere is unusable. even where a single sheet is used, it must be bonded to itself to form the enclosed envelope and the bonds will produce such irregularities and distortions. secondly, the free foaming of the liquid formulation results in an uneven foamed plastics coating which requires secondary treatment to produce an acceptable product. thirdly, the process is unsuitable for the production of convex mirror surfaces. the present invention provides a method of producing curved lightweight mirrors which avoids these disadvantages. according to the present invention, the method comprises the steps of (i) providing a flexible laminate comprising a transparent plastics sheet and a layer of reflecting material bonded to one face thereof, (ii) drawing a zone of said laminate into a curved profile by the application of differential fluid pressure, most preferably differential gas pressure, across it in known manner, (iii) while maintaining said zone in said drawn curved profile by application of differential fluid pressure, applying to the face of the curved zone of laminate opposite the face comprising the transparent plastics sheet a coating of a liquid composition which cures to a tough resin and causing or allowing the composition to set to form a tough resinous layer bonded to and supporting said drawn zone, and (iv) introducing into an enclosed mould a wall of which is provided by said resinous layer a material which reacts to form a rigid plastics foam and causing or allowing said material to foam to fill the mould and set and thereby become bonded as a moulded rigid foamed plastics backing to the resinous layer. the step of drawing the zone of the sheet into a curved profile may be effected by known procedures. for example, a central zone of the laminate is restrained by an annular clamp and then either a vacuum or a superatmospheric pressure is applied to one face of the restrained zone. it will be seen that
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims   1. a method of producing lightweight mirrors characterised in that it comprises  (i) providing a flexible laminate comprising a transparent plastics sheet and a layer of reflecting material bonded to one face thereof,  (ii) drawing a zone of said laminate into a curved profile by the application of differential fluid pressure across it, in known manner,  (iii) while maintaining said zone in said drawn curved profile by application of differential fluid pressure, applying to the face of the curved zone of laminate opposite the face comprising the transparent plastics sheet a coating of a liquid composition which cures to a tough resin and causing or allowing the composition to set to form  a resinous layer bonded to and supporting said drawn zone,  and  (iv) introducing into an enclosed mould a wall of which is provided by said resinous layer a material which reacts to form a rigid plastics foam and causing or allowing said material to foam to fill the mould and set and thereby become bonded as a moulded rigid foamed plastics backing to the resinous layer.   2. a method as claimed in claim 1 characterised in that the laminate comprises a cold-drawable metallised thermoplastics polyester sheet.   3. a method as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 characterised in that the liquid composition provides on curing a tough elastomeric resin.     4. a method as claimed in claim 3 characterised in that the  resin has a shore hardness of d80 to t90.   5. a method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4 characterised in that the rigid plastics foam is a polyurethane foam.   6. a method as claimed in claim 5 characterised in that the material employed in step (iv) is a self-skinning foam-forming composition.    7. a method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 6 characterised in that in step (iv) a superatmospheric fluid pressure is applied to the face of the transparent plastics sheet to counter pressure exerted on the other face of the laminate by the foaming of said material to reduce or prevent distortion of the laminate.   8. a method as claimed in any one claims 1 to 7 characterised in that the liquid composition applied in step (iii) is applied prior to step (iv) to the remaining mould surfaces of the mould referred to in step (iv).   9. a lightweight mirror characterised in that it has been obtained by the method claimed in any one of claims 1 to 9.   10. a rear view mirror for a motor vehicle characterised in that the mirror portion is obtained by the method claimed in any one of claims 1 to 9.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
