<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0012533
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800625
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
F02M-25/07 F28D-7/00 F02M-31/08 F02M-31/02 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
system for increasing the temperature of an air/fuel mixture delivered to an internal combustion engine.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
secretary industry britgb <sep>secretary of state for industry in her britannic majesty's gov. of the united kingdom of great britain and northern ireland<sep>secretary of state for industry in her britannic majesty's gov. of the united kingdom of great britain and northern ireland 1 victoria street london sw1h 0etgb<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
bannell john leslie kingsfordgb<sep>boam denis johngb<sep>finlay ian chirnsidegb<sep>littleson matthew perrygb<sep>bannell, john leslie kingsford<sep>boam, denis john<sep>finlay, ian chirnside<sep>littleson, matthew perry<sep>bannell, john leslie kingsford36 kingsborough gardensglasgow g12 9nj scotlandgb<sep>boam, denis john33 rokeby crescent, strathavonlanarkshire ml10 6eg scotlandgb<sep>finlay, ian chirnside40 laigh road, newton mearnsglasgow g77 5eq scotlandgb<sep>littleson, matthew perry5 garry avenue, bearsdenglasgow g61 2jy scotlandgb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a system for utilising heat in the exhaust gas of an  internal combustion engine to assist in vapourising the  fuel in the air/fuel mixture supplied to the engine.  to avoid  the problems of overheating and cracking the fuel at large  engine loads, the heating is effected by means of a con­ necting passage (30, 21) through which exhaust gas can be  ingested into the intake passage (4).  to control the ex­ haust gas ingestion rate at small loads, a restricted portion  (19) can be provided in the connecting passage, in which  the exhaust gas reaches sonic velocity, at small throttle  openings.  a heat exchanger (23) can be provided through  which the exhaust gas gives up some of its heat to the air/­ fuel mixture prior to the ingestion therein.  the homoge­ neity of the air/fuel mixture can be enhanced by the pro­ vision of obstructions in various configurations extending  across the intake passage.  such obstructions are preferably  heated to inhibit formation of pools of liquid fuel thereon.   control means (33) can be provided for controlling the  flow of the exhaust gas through the connecting passage at  higher engine loads or when the engine is fully warme up.   such control means can include pressure and temperature  sensors (39 and 42) for effecting closure of the connecting  passage where the intake manifold vacuum is less than a  predetermined value and/or when the intake manifold tem­ perature reaches a predetermines value.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
european patent application patent specification title:- improvements in or relating to internal combustion engines this invention relates to internal combustion engines, and in particular to a system for increasing the temperature of the supply of air/fuel mixture for combustion in such an engine to assist in vapourising the fuel component. it has been known for several years now that, for example if the liquid gasoline fed to a multi-cylinder spark ignition engine is vapourised before entering the intake manifold then significant improvements in engine performance may be obtained. these improvements can be the result of two factors. firstly vapourising the liquid fuel improves mixture homogeneity thereby allowing an engine to operate on leaner mixtures with improved thermal efficiency. secondly if the heat that is used to vapourise the liquid fuel is available immediately on starting the engine then the warm-up time during which the engine is on choke is reduced. reducing the time an engine is on choke is of particular assistance in reducing the exhaust emission from the engine but is also helpful in reducing fuel consumption. for optimum performance a fuel vapourising system should ensure thorough mixing of fuel and air even at light load conditions to provide a dry homogeneous mixture. the hot exhaust gases produced by an engine are an obvious heat source to use for vapourising liquid fuel, but the difficulty for many years has been to use exhaust gas heat without cracking the fuel as a result of local overheating, or overheating the charge as a whole, especially under full throttle conditions. a heat exchanger capable of achieving fast warm-up under engine idling conditions must have a large heat transfer service. for this reason it is found that with known exhaust gas heated systems, as a result of the large heat transfer surface, an increasing amount of heat is transferred to the mixture so that its temperature rises to a greater extent as engines speed and load are increased. this results from the considerable increase in exhaust gas temperature which occurs with increasing throttle opening. for example, the exhaust gas temperature of a petrol engine can typically vary from about 400 to 500 degrees c under idling conditions to about 800 degrees c at full throttle. a± a result, at full power conditions, the mixture is hotter than desired. a number of undesirable consequences follow from this d firstly, the density of the air/fuel mixture is reduced1 resulting in a lower mass flow rate of mixture at any given engine speed, and hence a reduced maximum power output. secondly, the hot mixture is more susceptible to detonation (knock) especially when the engine is running under a large load, or even to ignition of the mixture whilst in the intake. thirdly, cracking of the fuel may occur, leading to loss of power and deposits on surfaces within the intake. another factor is the power loss which can be caused, especially towards full power operation, by the pipe friction losses in the heat exchanger. a large
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims   1. a system for increasing the temperature of an air/fuel mixture to assist in   vaporising    liquid fuel droplets   contailled    therein prior to combustion in an internal combustion engine, said engine having an intake passage through which air can be drawn into the engine, a fuel metering device for introducing liquid fuel into the air within the intake passage to produce an air/fuel mixture therein, and a throttle in the intake passage for controlling the rate of flow of air/fuel mixture through the intake passage, characterised by a connecting passage (21, 22)   througn'    which in use a proportion of the engine exhaust gas can flow from the engine into the intake passage (2,4) at a location downstream of the throttle (14).   2. a system according to claim 1 characterised by means (22,23) for cooling exhaust gas flowing through the connecting passage.   3. a system according to claim 2 oharacterised in that the means for cooling comprises a heat exchanger   (22,23)      through    which heat in the exhaust gas flowing through the connecting passage can be transferred to air or air/fuel mixture in the intake passage.   4. a system according to claim 3 characterised in that the heat exchanger is in the form of at least one heat transfer tube (22) forming part of the connecting passage and passing through the intake passage.   5. a system according to claim 4 characterised in that the heat transfer tube is externally finned (23).   6. a system according to claim 4 or claim 5 characterised in that a proportion of the exhaust gas flowing through the said at least one heat transfer tube is returned to the exhaust duct through a return passage   (31),    only the remaining proportion flowing through the   connecting    passage (21) into the intake passage.   7. a system according to claim 6 characterised in that the return passage communicates with an exhaust duct (1) downstream of the said heat transfer tube means (32) being provided for inducing a pressure drop in the axhaust duct between the points where the said heat transfer tube and the return passage communicate therewith.     8. a system according to claim 7 characterised in that the said means for inducing a pressure drop comprises a partial baffle (32) in the exhaust duct (1) between the points where the said heat transfer tube (30) and the return passage (31) communicate therewith.   9. a system according to claim 2 characterised in that the means for cooling comprises an extended duct (21) forming part of the connecting passage and located within a wall of the intake passage.   10. a system according to any one preceding claim characterised in that the connecting passage has at least a portion (19) which is of restricted cross-sectional area so as to limit the flow rate of exhaust gas into the intake passage.   11. a system according to claim 10 characterised in that the crosssectional area of the restricted portion (19) is such that the exhaust gas reaches sonic velocity therein under conditions of light engine load.   12. a system according to claim 10 or claim 11 characterised in that the restricted portion takes the form of one or more orifices (19) through   which    the connecting passage opens directly into the intake passage.   13. a system according to any one of claims 10 to 12 characterised in that the connecting passage opens into the intake passage just downstream of the throttle   (14).      14. a system according to any one preceding claim characterised by closing means   (17,33)    for closing the connecting passage.   15. a system according to claim 14 characterised in that the closing means comprises a rotatable ring (17) having at least one aperture (18) therein corresponding to the opening (19) of the connecting passage into the intake passage, rotation of the ring being effective to move the ring between a position in which an aperture is aligned with an opening and a position in which there is no such alignment.    16. a system according to claim 14 or claim 15 characterised in that the closing means comprise a valve   (33)    for controlling the flow of exhaust gas through the connecting passage.   17. a system according to any one of claims 14 to 16 characterised by control means (35) for controlling the closing means.     18.   a    system according to claim 17 characterised in that the control means comprises a pressure sensor (39) for sensing the pressure in the intake passage   downstream    of the throttle.   19. a system according to claim 17 or claim 18 characterised in that the control means comprises a temperature sensor (42) for sensing the temperature in the intake passage downstream of the throttle.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
