<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0004988
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19791031
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
H04R-25/00 H04R-25/02 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
hearing-aid with combined potentiometer and cylindrical battery holder.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
philips nv nl<sep>koninklijke philips electronics n.v.  <sep>philips electronics n.v.groenewoudseweg 15621 ba eindhovennl<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
coehorst robert francoisnl<sep>coehorst, robert francois<sep>coehorst, robert francoisc/o int. octrooibureau b.v. 6, prof. holstlaannl-5656 aa eindhovennl<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
"this invention relates to a hearing aid of the kind which  is provided with a cylindrical battery holder.  a hearing aid, in particular a "behind-the-ear" hearing  aid, provided with a cylindrical battery holder which in a  specific position permits a battery to be inserted radially and  is rotatably journalled in a housing the battery holder  extending partly outside the outer wall of the housing and  being provided with a switch which switches on the associated  amplifier upon rotation of the battery holder, which  battery holder is coupled to the volume control of the  amplifier.  the volume control may comprise a single annular  carbon track or a plurality of conductive contact tracks, which  tracks may be arranged either on one of the flat side walls of  the battery holder or outside said holder.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
this invention relates to a hearing aid of the kind which is provided with a cylindrical battery holder. hearing aids are equipped with a volume control for the built-in amplifier. this control generally comprises a rotary potentiometer, which is manually adjustable with a knurled disc which slightly projects from the housing surface-of the hearing aid. the person wearing the hearing aid turns this disc until a position is found which corresponds to the desired amplification of the sound to be transmitted. in the last decade hearing aids were miniaturised. this resulted in hearing aids which are worn behind the ear, that is, the so-called "behind-the-ear" type hearing aid; the shape being adapted to that of the earshell and the size being crescent-shape so that this type of hearing aid can be situated almost completely behind the earshell. for such an aid it is of importance that the essential components, such as microphone, receiver, amplifier, battery for the power supply and volume control are very small. in this respect it is also of importance, that the hearing aid has a minimum number of projecting elements. the invention relates to a hearing aid, in particular a "behind-the-ear" hearing aid, provided with a cyliiarical battery holder, which in a certain position enables a battery to be inserted radially and is rotatably journalled in a housing, said battery holder extending partly outside the outer wall of the housing and being provided witli a switch, which switches on the associated amplifier upon rotation of the battery holder. such a hearing aid is for example known from austrian patent specification 278,933. the invention is based on the principle of comv bining the functions of battery holder and volume control. according to the present invention there is provided a hearing aid of the aforesaid kind and which is suitable for use by being worn behind the ear by the user is provided with a cylindrical battery holder, which enables a battery to be inserted radially which the holder is in one position and which is rotatably journalled in a housing, said battery holder extending partly outside the outer wall of the housing, and being provided with a switch'which switches on an associated amplifier upon rotation of the battery holder, characterized in that the battery holder is coupled to a volume control of the amplifier. by rotating the cylindrical battery holder the amplifier volume is also controlled. in one embodiment of the invention the volume control comprises at least one flat and at least partly annular contact track with a cooperating slip contact spring. obviously, the contact track is then included in the electrical circuit of the amplifier. in a further embodiment the volume control is provided with a single annular contact track, which takes the form of a carbon track. this enables the volume of sound to be controlled continuously. in another embodiment the volume control comprises a plurality of concentrically disposed flat, partly annular, contact tracks, each contact track being connected to an associated resistor. the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
   claibis:         1. a hearing aid,which is suitable for use useuse by being worn be       hind    ##   -ear   by the user, is provided with a cylindrical battery holder which enables a battery to be inserted radially when the holder is in one position and which is rotatably journalled in a housing, said battery holder extending partly outside the outer wall of the housing, and being provided with a switch which switches on an associated amplifier upon rotation of the battery holder, characterized in that   the battery'holder    is coupled to a volume control of the amplifier.   2. a hearing aid as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that the volume control comprises at least one flat and at least partly annular contact track with a cooperating slip contact spring.   3. a hearing aid as claimed in claim 2, characterized in that the volume control is provided with a single annular contact track, which takes the form of a carbon track.   4. a hearing aid as claimed in claim 2, characterized in that the volume control comprises a plurality of concentrically disposed flat, partly annular, contact tracks, each contact track being connected to an   associated    ed resistor.   5. a hearing aid as claimed in any of the claims 2 to 4, characterized in   tlj;#t    each contact track is secured  to the outside of one of the flat side walls of the battery holder.   5. a hearing aid as claimed in any of the claims 2 to 4, characterized in that each contact track is situated on a substrate for the amplifier.   7. a hearing aid as claimed in any of the preceding claims, the battery holder being provided with a circumferential rim with a plurality of recesses, which cooperate with resilient latching means, is characterized in that a small number of recesses are regularly spaced over the circumference, each recess corresponding to a specific setting of the amplifier sensitivity and the latching means comprising a helical spring enclosed in the housing, which spring urges a ball against the rim or into the recesses.   8. a hearing aid as claimed in any of the preceding claims, characterized in that, in order to form a resilient tab, a flat side wall of the battery holder is provided with two incisions which extend inwards from the insertion opening, the tab being provided with a battery-retaining cam over at least a part of the width of said tab on the battery side and near the circumference.    9. a hearing aid as claimed in any of the preceding claims, characterized in that the battery holder is rotatable about a pin on one side and via a pivot bearing on the other side, the pin serving as an electrical contact is urged inwards by a leaf spring which is rigidly connected to said pin and which is secured to the housing, whilst around the pin the battery holder is provided with a partly helical latching cam which cooperates with the leaf spring, the electrical connection between the pin and the battery being interrupted in the open position of the battery holder.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
