<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0007841
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800206
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B60C-9/26 <main>B60C-9/20</main> B60C-9/20 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
pneumatic tire with reinforcing belt.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
uniroyal englebert pneufr<sep>pneu uniroyalenglebert<sep>pneu uniroyal englebertf-60200 clairoixfr<sep>pneu uniroyal englebert<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
mirtain henri jean<sep>mirtain, henri jean<sep>mirtain, henri jean35, avenue de la sommef-60200 compiegnefr<sep>mirtain, henri jean  <sep>mirtain, henri jean35, avenue de la sommef-60200 compiegnefr<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
this invention relates to a pneumatic tire incorporating a  reinforcement belt comprising two superposed unfolded  median plies (p,q) and two laterally disposed folded marginal  plies (r,r′).  the folded plies each forms two superposed flaps,  with the corresponding flaps of each marginal ply being sub­ stantially aligned.  in all embodiments of the invention at least one pair of  corresponding opposite laterally disposed flaps align with  one (q) of the unfolded median pies (p,q), and the lateral  areas of the other unfolded median ply (p) are surrounded by  the folded plies (r,r′).  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
pneumatic tire with reinforcing belt this invention relates to pneumatic tires and more particularly to an improved reinforcement belt construction for a pneumatic tire. a reinforcement belt such as disclosed in my u.s. patent no 4.034.791 includes two flat unfolded plies comprised of metallic reinforcement filiform elements coated with natural or synthetic rubber and two folded over plies with filiform elements likewise coated and made of a synthetic textile material such as an aromatic polyamide or an aramide known under the trademark kevlar. as used herein the term "filiform elements" relates to cable cords, strands, filaments and monofilaments. the unfold¯ ed plies predominate in the median area of the reinforcement belt whereas each lateral area of the belt is predominated by a folded over ply that forms two confronting flap portions. each flap portion of one folded ply in one lateral area aligns with a corresponding flap portion of the other folded ply in the other lateral area of the reinforcement belt. the folded and unfolded plies are arranged such that one of the unfolded plies is an extension of one set of aligned flaps in each of the folded over plies. under this arrangement the reinforcement belt has, at the various points.along its crosswise width, at least two and at the most three layers or thicknesses of superpositioned plies. a reinforcement belt structure of the type described provides adequate transverse rigidity and also substantially reduces the likelihood of separation and/or tearing of the lateral edges of the belt. such a belt is also relatively economical to manufacture because the plies that incorporate relatively costly reinforcement elements do not extend over the entire width of the belt as is the case with certain known reinforcement belt structures. while the reinforcement belt of the present invention is of a different construction than the belt disclosed in my u.s. patent nd 4.034.791 it provides benefits similar to those already described for my prior belt construction. it is an object of this invention to provide a pneumatic tire having an improved novel reinforcement belt construction that provides an optimum amount of transverse rigidity in the median area of the belt and an optimum amount of flexibility in the lateral area of the belt. the present invention relates to a pneumatic tire wherein an annular reinforcement belt surrounds a carcass intermediate the carcass and the tread in substantially symmetrical relationship to an equatorial plane of the tire. the reinforcement belt, in crosssection, comprises two crosswise spaced, opposite, laterally disposed plies each folded to form a pair of superposed flap portions having ends directed toward the equatorial plane of the tire. homologous ends of the flap portions are aligned and have respective predetermined crosswise spacings therebetween. a first unfolded ply of the reinforcement belt is disposed intermediate a first pair of opposite laterally disposed flaps in alignment with the ends of the flaps, enabling the flaps to form terminal extensions of the first unfolded ply. a second unfolded ply which is of greater crosswise extent
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims of patent   1. pneumatic tire comprising an annular carcass having a radially outerlying crown portion, a tread constituting an annular cover surrounding the crown portion of said carcass, and an annular reinforcement belt interpositioned between the crown portion of said carcass and said tread, characterized in that said reinforcement belt has marginal end portions in cross-section, and comprises in cross-section a pair of opposite, laterally disposed, crosswise spaced, first and second plies of a first cord material, each of said first and second plies being folded to form two respective flap portions having ends directed toward an equatorial plane of the tire and respective folded margins directed away from said equatorial plane, one of the flap portions of each said first and second folded plies and at least a portion of the other said respective flap, being superposed,  a first ply of second cord material having opposite terminal ends being disposed between homologous ends of one of the pairs of corresponding opposite, laterally disposed flap portions such that one pair of opposite, laterally disposed flap portions extends laterally beyond corresponding terminal ends of said first ply of said second cord material in substantial alignment with said corresponding opposite terminal ends, and a second ply of said second cord material being disposed adjacent said first ply of said second cord material and having opposite terminal ends, respectively disposed between the superposed flap portions of the first and second folded plies, such that the reinforcement belt has at least two layers of ply thickness at various points along its crosswise width and three layers of ply thickness where the folded over flap portions are superposed.     2. pneumatic tire according to claim 1, characterized in that said first and second cord materials comprise filiform elements, the filiform elements of said first cord material being substantially more flexible than the filiform elements of said second cord material.   3. pneumatic tire according to claim 2, characterized in that said filiform elements of said first cord material are formed of metal.   4. pneumatic tire according to claim 3, characterized in that said filiform elements of said first cord material are formed of steel.   5. pneumatic tire according to claim 4, characterized in that said filiform elements of said first# cord material are formed of relatively fine steel cord whereas the filiform elements of said second cord material are formed of relatively coarse steel cord.   6. pneumatic tire according to claim 1,    .      characterized in that said filiform elements of said first cord material comprise nonmetallic cords and said filiform elements of said second cord material comprise metallic wire cords.   7. pneumatic tire according to claim 6, characterized in that said nonmetallic cord material is formed of an aromatic polyamide identified by the trademark kevlar.   8. pneumatic tire according to claim 1; characterized in that said reinforcement belt is symmetrical with respect to the equatorial plane of said tire.     9. pneumatic tire according to claim 1, characterized in that homologous ends of the first and second pairs of corresponding opposite, laterally disposed flap portions are crosswise aligned.   10. pneumatic tire according to claim 1, characterized in that said second ply of said second cord material is of greater crosswise extent than the first ply of said second cord material.   11. pneumatic tire according to claim 1, characterized in that said second ply of said second cord material is disposed radially internal of said first ply of said second cord material.   12. pneumatic tire according to claim 1, characterized in that said second ply of said second cord material is disposed radially external of said first ply of said second cord material.   13. pneumatic tire according to claim 1, characterized in that the crosswise extent of each flap of the other pair of corresponding opposite, laterally disposed flap portions is greater than the crosswide extend of each flap of said one pair of corresponding opposite, laterally disposed flap portions.   14. pneumatic tire according to claim 13, characterized in that said one pair of corresponding opposite, laterally disposed flap portions is disposed radially inwardly of said other pair of corresponding opposite, laterally disposed flap portions.   15. pneumatic tire according to claim 14, characterized in that second ply of said second cord material is of greater crosswise extent than the first ply of said second cord material and is disposed radial  ly inward of the first ply of said second cord material.   16. pneumatic tire according to claim 14, characterized in that the second ply of said second cord material is of greater crosswise extent than the first ply of said second cord material and is disposed radially outward of the first ply of said second cord material.    17. pneumatic tire according to claim 13, characterized in that said one pair of corresponding opposite, laterally disposed flap portions is disposed radially outwardly of said other pair of corresponding opposite, laterally disposed flap portions.   18. pneumatic tire according to claim 17, characterized in that the second ply of said second cord material is of greater crosswise extent than the first ply of said second cord material and is disposed radially outward of the first ply of said second cord material.   19. pneumatic tire according to claim 17, characterized in that the second ply of said second cord material is of greater crosswise extent than the first ply of said second cord material and is disposed radially inward of the first ply of said second cord material.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
