<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0013132
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800709
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B65B-3/10 <main>B65B-55/04</main> B65B-3/22 B65B-55/02 B65B-3/12 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
apparatus comprising a dosaging device for a liquid product and a method for it.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
liquipak int bvch<sep>liquipak international b.v.<sep>liquipak international b.v.56 grand-ruech-1700 freibourgch <sep>liquipak international b.v.<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
mosse richard wolfgang emil<sep>vatne kaare birger  <sep>mosse, richard wolfgang emil<sep>vatne, kaare birger<sep>mosse, richard wolfgang emil28 clifton hilllondon, w.8.gb<sep>vatne, kaare birger3 scots closeware, hertfordshiregb<sep>mosse, richard wolfgang emil<sep>vatne, kaare birger<sep>mosse, richard wolfgang emil28 clifton hilllondon, w.8.gb<sep>vatne, kaare birger3 scots closeware, hertfordshiregb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
an aseptic packaging machine 1 includes a chain con­ veyor conveying cartons along a path p in an aseptic chamber  6 including an advance leg and a return leg each extending  along the machine 1.  ultra-violet germicidal lamps 8 extend  over at least a major portion of the advance leg.  a septic liquid  is fed into the cartons c by a filling device 9 comprised of, in  turn, an expansion chamber, a non-return inlet valve, a recip­ rocatory bellows and a non-return outlet valve.  after filling,  the cartons are top-heated and sealed by a top heating device  10 and a top-sealing device 11.  the only non-aseptic matter  deliberately introduced into the chamber 6 is the cartons c.   the chamber 6 is cleaned internally by cleaning fluid from  spray nozzles.  the carton entry to and exit from the chamber 6  have aseptic air curtains.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
improvements in or relating to packaging. this invention relates to packaging, particularly aseptic packaging of aseptic products, for example long-life milk, in cartons. according to the first aspect of the present invention, there is provided an aseptic packaging method, comprising introducing containers into an aseptic chamber of an aseptic packaging machine of elongate form; conveying said containers along a path in said challlber; sterilizing the interiors of said containers to render said interiors aseptic, feeding an aseptic product into said containers and sealingly closing said containers, all while said containers are on said path ; characterised in that said path includes both an advance leg and a return leg each extending along the machine and in that said sterilizing occurs over at least a major portion of the leiigth of said advance leg. according to a second aspect of the present invention, there is provided an aseptic packaging machine of elongate form, comprising an aseptic chamber; introducing means arranged to introduce contain ners into said chamber; conveying means arranged to convey said containers along a path in said chamber; sterilizing means arranged to render aseptic the interiors of said containers while said containers are on said path; feeding means arranged to feed an aseptic product into said containers while said containers are on said path downstream of said sterilizing means; and sealing means arranged sealingly to close said containers while said containers are on said path downstream of said feeding means; characterised in that said path includes both an advance leg and a return leg each extending along the machine and that said sterilizing means extends over a section of said path forming at least a major portion of the length of said advance leg. according to the third aspect of the present invention, there is provided packaging apparatus including feeding means arranged to feed a fluid product into containers, said feeding means comprising ducting, a reciprocatory pump communicating with said ducting for pumping the product, an outlet valve in said ducting arranged to open to allow the product to flow from the pump during the pressure stroke thereof, and an inlet valve in said ducting arranged to open to allow the product to flow to the pump during the suction stroke thereof, characterised in that the reciprocatory-pump is a bellows. according to the fourth aspect of the present inventi--on, there is provided apparatus comprising a dosaging device arranged to deliver a liquid product in predetermined individual doses, a pumping device arranged to deliver continuously said product under pressure, and an expansion chamber by way of which said pumping device communicates with said dosaging device and whereof the volume varies in dependence on the difference between the rates of flow of said product thereinto and therefrom, characterised in that said expansion chamber has a flexible wall part whereby said volume varies as aforesaid. according to the fifth aspect of the present invention, there is provided an aseptic packaging method, comprising introducing into an aseptic chamber pre-formed, open-topped cartons; sterilizing the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
   claims      1. an aseptic packaging method, comprising introducing containers (c) into an aseptic chamber (6) of an aseptic packaging machine (1) of elongate form; conveying said containers (c) along a path (p) in said chamber (6); sterilizing the interiors of said containers (c) to render said interiors aseptic, feeding an aseptic product into said containers (c) and sealingly closing said containers (c), all while said containers (c) are on said path (p); characterised in that said path (p) includes both and advance leg and a return leg each extending along the machine (1) and in that said sterlizing occurs over at least a major portion of the length of said advance leg.   2. a method according to claim 1, wherein said sterilizing comprises irradiating said interiors with   ultra-violet radiation,    and characterised in that said sterlizing includes spraying said interiors with hydrogen peroxide.   3. a method according to claim 2, characterised in that said spraying is performed in the region of the beginning of said advance leg.   4. a method according to claim 3, wherein said containers (c) are cartons (c), characterised in that said spraying is performed at a top pre-breaking station (7) on said path (p).   5. an aseptic packaging machine of elongate form, comprising an aseptic chamber (6); introducing means (3) arranged to introduce containers (c) into said chamber (6); conveying means (5) arranged to convey said conveyors (c) along a path (p) in said chamber (6); sterilizing means (7',8) arranged to render aseptic the interiors of said containers (c) while said containers (c) are on said path (p); feeding means (9) arranged to feed an aseptic product into said containers (c) while said containers (c) are on said path (p) downstream of said sterlizing means (7',8); and sealing means (11) arranged sealingly to close said containers (c) while said containers (c) are on said path (p) downstream of said feeding means (9);  characterised in that said path (p) includes both an advance leg and  a return leg each extending along the machine (1) and that said sterilizing means (7',8) extends over a section of said path (8) forming at least a major portion of the length of said advance leg.   6. a machine according to claim 5, wherein said sterilizing means (71,8) comprises ultra-violet radiating means (8), characterised in that said sterilizing means (7',8) includes spraying nozzle means (7') for spraying said interiors with hydrogen peroxide.   7. a machine according to claim 6, characterised in that said spraying nozzle means (7') is situated in the region of the beginning of said advance leg.   8. a machine according to claim 7, and further comprising a top pre-breaking means (7) situated in said region for pre-breaking top closures of said containers (c), characterised in that said spraying nozzle means (71) is carried by the top pre-breaking means (7).   9. packaging apparatus including feeding means (9) arranged to feed a fluid product into containers (c), said feeding means (9) comprising ducting   (23-25y,    a reciprocatory pump (21) communicating with said ducting   23-25)    for pumping the product, an outlet valve in said ducting (23-25) arranged to open to allow the product to flow from the pump (21) during the pressure stroke thereof, and an inlet valve in said ducting (23-25) arranged to open to allow the product -to flow to the pump (21) during the suction stroke thereof, characterised in that the reciprocatory pump (21) is a bellows   (21).      10. apparatus according to claim 9, and further comprising a pumping device arranged to deliver continuously said product under pressure, and an expansion chamber (29) by way of which said pumping device communicates with said inlet valve and the volume of which varies in dependence on the difference between the rates of flow of said product thereinto and therefrom, characterised in that said expansion chamber (29) has a flexible wall part (31) whereby said volume varies as  said flexible wall part (31) and supply means (33) arranged to supply a pressure fluid to said constantpressure chamber (30) to maintain a substantially constant pressure therein.   18. apparatus according to claim 15, 16, or 17, characterised in that indicating means (37) is connected to said flexible wall part (31) and arranged to indicate the position thereof.   19. apparatus according to claim 15, 16, 17, or 18, characterised in that said flexible wall part (31) comprises an annular bellows (31) sealingly connecting a movable wall part (32) to a fixed wall part of said expansion chamber (29).   20. an aseptic packaging method, comprising introducing into an aseptic chamber (6) pre-formed, open-topped cartons (c); sterlizing the interiors of the cartons (c) to render said interiors aseptic while the cartons (c) are in the chamber (6); feeding an aseptic product into the cartons(c) while the cartons (c) are in the chamber (6); top-sealing the cartons (c) while the cartons (c) are in the chamber (6); and removing the aseptic product-containing cartons (c) from the chamber (6); characterised in that the only non-aseptic matter deliberately introduced into the chamber (6) is the pre-formed, open-topped cartons (c).   21. a method according to claim 20, characterised in that a stream of aseptic air is passed through said chamber (6) during said sterilizing, said feeding, and said top-sealing.   22. a method according to claim 20 or 21, characterised in that aseptic air curtain means are formed across carton entry and exit means (3', 6") of said chamber (6).   23. aseptic packaging apparatus, comprising an aseptic. chamber (6); introducing and removing means (3, 3', 6") arranged to introduce pre-formed, open  aforesaid.   11. apparatus according to claim 10, characterised in that force-applying means (30,33) is arranged to apply to said flexible wall part (31) a force which is of a substantially constant value.   12. apparatus according to claim 11, characterised in that said force-applying means (30, 33) comprises a constant-pressure chamber (30) and supply means (33) arranged to supply a pressure fluid to said constant-pressure chamber (30) to maintain a substantially constant pressure therein.   13. apparatus according to claim 10, 11 or 12, characterised in that indicating means (37) is connected to said flexible wall part (31) and arranged to indicate the position thereof.   14. apparatus according to claim 10, 11, 12 or 13, characterised in that said flexible wall part (31) is an annular bellows (31) sealingly connecting a movable wall part (32) to a fixed wall part of said expansion chamber (29).   15. apparatus comprising a dosaging device (21-25) arranged to deliver a liquid product in predetermined individual doses, a pumping device arranged to deliver continuously said product under pressure, and an expansion chamber (29) by way of which said pumping device communicates with said dosaging device (21-25) and whereof the volume varies in dependence on the difference between the rates of flow of said product thereinto and therefrom, characterised in that said expansion chamber (29) has a flexible wall part (31) whereby said volume varies as aforesaid.    16. apparatus according to claim 15, characterised in that pressure-applying means (30, 33) is arranged to apply to said flexible wall part (31) a pressure which is of a substantially constant value.   17.   -    apparatus according to claim 16, characterised in that said   pressure-applying    means (30, 33) comprises a constant-pressure chamber (30) bounded by     topped cartons (c) into said chamber (6) and to remove  aseptic product-containing cartons (c) therefrom;    stenlizing    means (7', 8) arranged to render aseptic  the interiors of the open-topped cartons (c) while  the cartons (c) are in the chamber (6); feeding means  (9) arranged to feed an aseptic product into the  open-topped cartons (c) while the cartons (c) are in  the chamber (6);  and top-sealing means (11) arranged  to seal the tops of the cartons (c) while the cartons (c)  are in the chamber (6), characterised in that the appara  tus (1) is such that, in use of the apparatus (1),  the only non-aseptic matter deliberately introduced into  the chamber   i6)    is the pre-formed, open-topped cartons    (c).       24. apparatus according to claim 23,   characterised     in that means (13, 13') is arranged to pass a stream of  aseptic air through said chamber (6) in the direction  from said feeding means (9) towards a carton entry (3')  of said chamber (6).    25. apparatus according to claim 23 or 24, charac  terised in that means (81, 82) is arranged to produce  aseptic air curtain means across carton entry and exit  means (3', 6") of said chamber (6).    26. a method of cleaning the internal surface  of an aseptic chamber of an aseptic packaging machine,  comprising supplying cleaning fluid into said chamber  (6) from dispensing means (41) which communicates with  the interior of said chamber (6), characterised in that  said dispensing means (41) forms part of said machine    (1).       27. a method according to claim 26, characterised  in that said supplying is automatically controlled.    28. an aseptic packaging machine, comprising an  aseptic chamber (6), characterised in that said machine  (1) includes dispensing means (41) communicating with the   interior    of said chamber (6) and arranged to supply  cleaning fluid into said chamber (6) for cleaning the  internal surface of said chamber (6).     29. an aseptic packaging machine, including an aseptic chamber (6) having an opening (3', 6")in a wall thereof, characterised in that means (81, 82) is arranged to produce an aseptic air curtain across said opening (3', 6").    30. a method of filling a container with a liquid product, wherein the container is maintained in a tilted condition in which an internal face thereof is inclined to the vertical and directly below an outlet from which the liquid product flows down onto said internal face, characterised in that said method is automatic.   31. apparatus for filling a container with a liquid product, comprising a downwardly directed outlet for the product, and means arranged to maintain the container in a tilted condition in which an internal face thereof is inclined to the vertical and directly below said outlet, characterised in that said apparatus is automatically controlled.   32. apparatus as claimed in claim 31, characterised in   thatit    is-partofapackaging machine (1).  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
