<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0011955
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800611
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<main>F16F-1/40</main> B61G-11/08 F16F-1/40 B60G-11/22 B61G-11/00 F16F-1/36 B60G-11/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
composite cushion pad.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
midland ross corpus<sep>midland-ross corporation<sep>midland-ross corporation20600 chagrin boulevardshaker heights cleveland, ohio 44122us<sep>midland-ross corporation<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
jwuc karl johnus<sep>jwuc, karl john<sep>jwuc, karl john352 whittlesy drivetallmadge, ohio 44278us<sep>jwuc, karl john<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
the pad is for railroad cars or off-the-road vehicles.  it can  be circular or rectangular, depending on its use.  the circular  composite cushion pad is composed of a rigid circular plate 7  having a centrally disposed opening 8 which is surrounded by  two juxtaposed, resilient elastomeric annular cushions 13, 17  that form a composite cushion which is bonded to one side of  the plate 7.  the two annular cushions each have a generally  frusto-conically shaped cross-section and are dissimilarly  sized so that the composite cushion has a pair of opposing  stepped sidewalls.  the rectangular composite cushion pad includes a rigid  rectangular plate.  a first, resilient elastomeric cushion with a  generally frusto-conically shaped (trapezoidal) cross-section,  is bonded to the rectangular plate and at least one smaller  sized resilient elastomeric cushion, also with a generally  frusto-conically shaped (trapezoidal) cross-section, is disposed  on top of the first cushion to form a composite cushion  which extends from one side of the plate and which also has a  pair of opposing stepped sidewalls.  a composite cushion may  be placed on both sides of the plate.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
composite cushion pad the invention relates to a composite cushion pad. such a pad may be generally suited for any application involving cushion pads, and, more particularly5 for use in connection with oil-the-road vehicles, e.gf large trucks, wherein it is desirable to provide a soft cushioning effect in the suspension systems of the vehicles, when they are operated empty and without loads, and a much firmer or harsher cushioning effect, w:ien the vehicles are operated fully loaded. u.s. patents 5 086 765 and 3 537 696 are typical of the many patents relating to circular cushion pads which are generally composed of a single rubber ring which has a generally frusto-conically shaped cross-section also is bonded to one or both sides of an annular rigid prate u.s patent 4 025 063 is typical of the many patents relating to rectangular cushion pads which are essentially composed of a plurality of parallel. rubber cushions, caca of which has a generlly fmusto-corically shaped crosssection. the invention is directed to an improved composite cushion pad having a different configuration which initially provides soft ride characteristics with improved resistance to compression when placed under a load. according to the present invention, there is provided a composite cushion pad comprising a rigid plate having at least one planar surface; characterised by the combination of (a) a first resilient elastomeric cushion secured to, and covering, the at least one planar surface and extending therefrom, the first cushion having a generally frusto-conical cross-section in a plane normal to the planar surface, the cross-section bounded by at least a pair of oppositely sloping sidewalls which extend angularly from the planar surface and generally converge in a direction away from the plate; and (b) a second resilient elastomeric cushion superimposed on the first cushion and extending tllere- from in a direction away from the plate, the second cushion, having in the cross-sectional plane of the first cushion, a cross-section bounded by at least a pair of oppositely disposed sidewalls which are (i) offset inwardly from the pair of opposing side walls of the first cushion towards each other, and (ii) generally angularly disposed to the planar surface, the first cushion forming with at least the second cushion, a composite cushion having at least one pair of spaced sidewalls with opposing stepped configurations. in this specification, when the words "top" and "bottom" are used they are used for the purpose of ease and clarity of description and without limiting intention they are used in relation to a composite cushion pad of which the rigid plate is disposed horizontally. the invention will be better understood from the following description of illustrative and non-limiting examples, given with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which: figure 1 is a perspective view of one example of a circular composite cushion pad made in accordance with the invention; figure 2 is a section of the pad viewed from the line 2-2 of figure 1; figure 3 is a perspective view of an example of a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims   1. a composite cushion pad comprising a rigid plate having at least one planar surface; characterised by the combination of  (a) a first resilient elastomeric cushion secured to, and covering, the at least one planar surface and extending therefrom, the first cushion having a generally frusto-conical cross-section in a plane normal to the planar surface, the cross-section bounded by at least a pair of oppositely sloping sidewalls which extend angularly from the planar surface and generally converge in a direction away from the plate;  and  (b) a second resilient elastomeric cushion superimposed on the first cushion and extending therefrom in a direction away from the plate, the second cushion, having in the cross-sectional plane of the first cushion, a cross-section bounded by at least a pair of oppositely disposed sidewalls which are (i) offset inwardly from the pair of opposing sidewalls of the first cushion towards each other, and (ii) generally angularly disposed to the planar surface, the first cushion forming with at least the second cushion, a composite cushion having at least one pair of spaced sidewalls with opposing stepped configurations.     2. a pad according to claim 1 in which the first and second cushions are integrally formed of the same elastomeric material.      3.    a pad according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the at least one pair of opposing sidewalls with stepped configurations, comprises:  i a first pair of sidewalls generally converging  from the plate and terminating at substantially  equal distances from the planar surface;  ii a second pair of sidewalls offset inwardly  towards each other from the first pair of  sidewalls and generally converging still further  from the planar surface, the second pair of side  walls originating adjacent the termination of  the first pair of sidewalls and terminating at  substantially equal distances from the planar  surface; and  iii an intermediate surface connecting adjacent ends  of the first and second pairs of   converging     sidewalls.   4. a pad according to claim 1, 2 or 5 wherein the rigid plate is annular, having a centrally disposed opening and a pair of parallel annular planar surfaces, and a pair of annular composite cushions of first and second cushions are secured to, and extend from the planar surfaces in  opposite directions,   such    that the plate is sandwiched between two similar, but oppositely disposed   annular    composite cushions.   5. a pad according to claim 4,   wherein    the composite cushions are each integrally formed of the same rubbery material.   6. a pad according to claim 4 or 5 wherein the pair of opposing annular sidewalls of the first cushion of   re    composite cushion are disposed at different acute   angles    to the respective planar surface.   7. a pad according to claim 4, 5, or 6, wherein   the    pair of opposing annular sidewalls of the second cushion of each composite cushion are disposed at different acute angles to the respective planar surface.   8. a pad according to claim 6 or 7 wherein the sidewalls of the first or the second cushion as the case may be closest the opening in the plate, are disposed at greater angles, relative to the respective planar surface, than the sidewalls of the first or the second cushion as the case may be farthest from the opening.   9. the composite cushion pad of claim 8,   wherein    the pair of sidewalls of the first cushions are disposed at angles, measured relative to the planar surfaces,   which     are less than correspondingly measured angles of the closest sidewalls of the second cushions.   10. the composite cushion pad of claim 9, wherein the offset sidewalls of the first and second cushions are each connected by a surface which is substantially parallel to the planar surfaces.   11. the composite cushion pad of claim 10, wherein each of the second cushions has an outer curved surface connecting the sidewalls thereof, said outer curved surfaces each being convex relative to the planar surfaces.   12. the composite cushion pad of claim 1,   wherein    the plate is rectangular and has a pair of parallel planar surfaces, and a composite cushion is secured to and extends from each of the parallel planar surfaces, such that the plate is sandwiched between two similar, but oppositely disposed composite cushions, and a plurality of elongated second cushions extend in parallel relation from the first cushion of each composite cushion to form with the first cushions a pair of composite cushions each of which has a plurality of longitudinally extending paralle ] . ribs that are separated by valleys   which    are generally concave relative to the planar surfaces.     15. the composite cushion pad of claim 12, wherein the ribs of each composite cushion   have    outer surfaces   which    are substantially in the same plane that is parallel to the planar surfaces.   14. the composite cushion pad of claim 12 or   13,    wherein the valleys extend substantially to the first   cushions.      15. the composite cushion pad of claim 14, wherein each valley   1a    generally u-shaped and formed by smoothly curved walls which extend to the outer surfaces of the ribs 16. the composite cushion pad of claim 15, wherein each valley is defined between a pair of longitudinally extending stepped sidewalls comprising a first pair of   sidewal¹    closest the plate, which generally diverge from each other in a direction away from the plate, and a second pair of sidewalls offset from the first pair of sidewalls in directions away from each other, the second pair of sidewalls also generally diverging from each other in a direction away from the plate and extending to the outer surfaces of the ribs.    17. the composite cushion pad of claim 3, which includes:  (d) a second rigid plate in spaced parallel relation  from the other plate, and also having a planar  surface which faces the planar surface of the    other plate from which the composite cushion  extends; (e) a second composite cushion secured to, and  extending from, the second plate towards the    zither    plate, the two composite cushions being  integrally formed and mirror images of each  other relative to a plane between them   and     parallel to the plates.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
