<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0012610
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800625
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B31B-5/80 B31B-5/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
method and apparatus for forming cartons.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
hoehn john walter<sep>hoehn, john walter<sep>hoehn, john walter7 webb street middle brighton victoria 3186au<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
hoehn john walter <sep>hoehn, john walter<sep>hoehn, john walter7 webb streetmiddle brighton victoria 3186au<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a method and apparatus for erecting cartons having a  plurality of sidewalls (21, 22, 23) each hingedly attached to  each adjoining wall in a folded condition.  one of the walls of  the carton is held whilst an adjoining wall (23) is gripped and  angularly moved relative to the held wall to take up an angular  relationship thereto normally 90°.  during the movement of  the gripped wall a flap hingedly connected to the lower edge  of the gripped wall is also pivotally moved to a position locat­ ed between the two walls adjoining the gripped wall.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
this invention relates to the forming of cartons of the type having a plurality of sidewalls each wall hingedly attached to each adjoining wall for angular movement about respective parallel axes and transportable in a folded condition with adjoining sides co-extensive or juxtapositioned. the invention is particularly directed to cartons of the above type having four sidewalls which form a rectangular shaped carton, however it is to be understood that the invention is applicable to cartons of other shapes. in order to reduce transportation costs it is customary for a carton manufacturer to produce a carton of the above type in a form so that it may be folded flat for transport and storage purposes, and machines are available for opening the folded carton into an erected state to receive the goods to be packaged. it is the object of the present invention to provide a method and apparatus for erecting the cartons from the folded condition preparatory to use, which method and apparatus is simpler and more convenient to operate than presently employed methods and apparatus. with this object in view there is provided by the present invention a method of erecting a folded carton of the above type comprising feeding a folded carton to an erection station, holding one sidewall and gripping one adjoining sidewall of the carton at the said station, pivotally moving the gripped wall relative to the held wall to an angularly related position, and permitting the other walls of the carton to freely move to take up positions complementary to the angularly related position of the held and gripped walls. where the carton has four sidewalls so as to form a rectangular carton, the gripped wall is moved to a position at right angles to the held wall, and as a result of this movement, the other two walls of the carton move to take up a similar right angled relationship. conveniently, at least the gripped wall of the carton has a flap hingedly connected thereto along an edge at right angles to the hingeable connection with the adjoining walls, and the flap on the gripped wall is pivotally moved relative to the gripped wall during the pivotal movement of the latter so that said flap is disposed between the walls adjoining said gripped wall or respective flaps on said adjoining walls. the movement of the flap on the gripped wall to a position between the adjoining walls or flaps thereon results in the carton being held in the rectangular form resulting from the movement of the gripped wall when that wall is released and the held wall is also released. the carton may then be conveyed from the erection station along a defined path to engage in sequence guide bars which will pivotally move the flaps on the remaining sides of the carton in sequence to a folded condition to form the base of the carton. during this movement, glue may be applied to the flaps at selected locations so that they will
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
the claims defining the invention are as follows:   1. a method of erecting a folded carton of the above type comprising feeding a carton in the folded condition to an erection station, holding one sidewall and gripping an adjoining sidewall of the carton at the said station, pivotally moving the gripped wall relative to the held wall to an angularly related position, and permitting the other walls of the carton to¯freely move to take up positions complementary to the angularly related position of the held and gripped walls.   2. a method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the carton has a lower flap hingedly connected to the lower edge of at   l st t=¯ -gripped    wall, and wherein said lower flap is pivotally moved relative to the gripped wall during the pivotal movement of the latter whereby said lower flap is positioned between the two sidewalls adjoining the gripped wall.   3. a method as claimed in claim 2 wherein the sidewall of the carton disposed opposite the gripped wall after the pivotal movement of the latter also has a lower flap hingedly connected thereto, and wherein the carton is moved in a direction normal to the gripped wall while the lower flap of the gripped wall is maintained in said position, and the lower flap on said opposite wall is pivotally moved relative to said opposite wall in response to said movement of the carton whereby said lower flap is also positioned between the two sidewalls adjoining the opposite wall.   4. a method as claimed in claim 3 wherein the carton has four sidewalls and two sidewalls adjoining the gripped wall each have a lower flap hingedly connected thereto, and wherein the carton is subjected to further movement in said direction  while the lower flaps of the gripped and opposite walls are maintained in said positions, and said lower flaps and said adjoining walls are respectively pivotally moved relative to the adjoining wall in response to said further movement whereby said lower flaps underlie the lower flaps of the gripped and opposite walls.   5. a method as claimed in claim 4 wherein glue is applied to said lower flaps of the adjoining walls before they are moved to said underlying position.   6. a method as claimed in any one of claims 2 to 5 wherein the gripped wall is released after the lower flap connected thereto has been moved to said position between the adjoining wall and before the carton is moved in said direction normal to the gripped wall.   7. a method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 6 wherein the folded cartons are set in a magazine with all sidewalls substantially vertical, said magazine having an inclined base, the folded cartons being gravity fed to the erection station in a substantially vertical disposition.   8. apparatus for erecting a folded carton of the type specified comprising means to feed folded cartons to an erection   station,,means    to hold one wall of the carton when in said station, means to grip a wall adjoining said held wall and pivotally move the gripped wall relative to the held wall about the hingeable connection therebetween to a position angularly related to the held wall, whereby the other walls of the carton will be moved in response to said pivotal movement of the gripped wall to positions complementary to the angular relation  of the held and gripped walls.   9. apparatus as claimed in claim 8 wherein the means to grip and pivot the wall comprise an arm pivotally mounted for movement about an axis parallel to and adjacent the hinge connection between the held and gripped walls of a folded carton in the erection station, means carried by said arm to selectively grip and release said gripped wall, and means to selectively move said arm between a position to grip the wall of the folded carton and a position locating the gripped wall in said angular relation to the held walls.    10. apparatus as claimed in claim 9 wherein the means to selectively grip the carton wall are one or more suction cups selectively connectable to a suction source.   11. apparatus as claimed in claim 7, 8 or 9 wherein the carton has a flap hingedly connected to the lower edge of the gripped wall co-planar with the gripped wall when the carton is folded, and means are provided to pivotally move said flap relative to the gripped wall during the pivotal movement of the latter to a position between the walls adjoining the gripped walls.   12. apparatus as claimed in claim 11 wherein the means to pivotally move said flap comprise a member located in the path of the flap as it moves with the gripped wall to deflect the flap about the hinged connection and hold the flap substantially normal to the gripped wall.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
