<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0016273
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19801001
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
C22C-35/00 C22C-33/10 C21C-1/00 C22C-1/02 C21C-1/02 C21C-1/10 <main>C21C-1/02</main> 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
process and apparatus for the production of metallic compositions comprising at least two constituents, one constituent having a melting temperature exceeding the boiling temperature of the other.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
flinn aloysius r us  <sep>trojan paul karlus<sep>flinn, richard aloysius<sep>trojan, paul karl<sep>flinn, richard aloysius140 underdown driveann arbor michigan 48105us<sep>trojan, paul karl3939 vorhies roadann arbor michigan 48105us<sep>flinn, richard aloysius<sep>trojan, paul karl <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
flinn richard aloysius<sep>flinn, richard aloysius<sep>flinn, richard aloysius140 underdown driveann arbor michigan 48105us<sep>trojan, paul karl3939 vorhies roadann arbor michigan 48105us<sep>flinn, richard aloysius<sep>flinn, richard aloysius 140 underdown drive ann arbor michigan 48105 us<sep>trojan, paul karl3939 vorhies roadann arbor michigan 48105us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a process and apparatus are disclosed for the production  of a metallic composition, such as ferro-magnesium, wherein  one constituent has a melting point which is above the boiling  point of the second constituent.  a liquid melt of the first  constituent has an effective depth sufficient to produce a  static pressure head in excess of the vapor pressure of the  second constituent at the temperature of the melt.  the second  constituent in molten form is mixed with the first constituent  to form a liquid mixture wherein at least a portion of the  second constituent is in solution with the first constituent.  the  mixture if a solid metallic composition is to be found is sol­ idified rapidly to form the solid metallic composition in which  a substantial part of the second constituent appears as a  dispersion of fine particles of the second constituent in a  matrix of the first constituent.  the apparatus includes a col­ umnar furnace (10) communicating with a reaction chamber  (16) to provide the requisite pressure within the reaction  chamber (16), an adder mechanism (181 to supply the low-­ boiling point constituent to the pressurized reaction chamber  (16) and means (20) to cool and solidify the liquid mixture  rapidly so as to form the desired dispersion of fine particles of  the low-boiling point constituent in a matrix of the other con­ stituents.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
process and apparatus for the production of metallic compositions technical field the present invention relates to a process and apparatus for the production of a metallic composi tion comprising a melt containing at least two metallic constituents one of which has a melting temperature which exceeds the boiling temperature of the other at atmospheric pressure. the invention relates more specifically to a process and apparatus for the pro duction of a solid metallic composition. for compositions containing iron as the one constituent and magnesium, sodium, strontium, lithium or calcium as the other constituent, the addition of the other constituent to an iron melt which is at a temperature higher than the boiling temperature of the added constituent presents some problems for ease of disclosure these problems will be accented in relation to production of ferro-magnesium compositions. however, as will appear from the disclosure to follow our invention is not so limited and may be used for producing other ferro compositions; e.g. ferro-lithium, ferrostrontium, ferro-calcium or ferro-sodium. background art with respect to ferro-magnesium compositions, it was disclosed during the 1940's that the graphite contained in ordinary gray cast iron compositions could be altered from its normal flake form to a nodular form by the addition to the composition of relatively small quantities of magnesium. the basic process is disclosed is u.s. patent 2,485,760. magnesium has also long been known as an effective desulfurizer and degasifier of nonferrous metals. nodular iron is superior to gray cast iron containing graphite flakes in that it has twice the tensile strength and twentytimes-the ductility of gray cast iron. a problem in producl-ng nodular iron however is that magnesium reacts-violently with molten iron and is soluble in iron only -t6- a small degree. hence, in the production of nodular iron- the magnesium has been introduced in various combined fozms such as ferrosilicon magnesium (see u.s. patents 3 > l77,071, 3,290,142, 3,367,771 and 3,375-,104), coke or charcoal impregnated with magnesium (see u.s patents 3;321,304 and 3,598,572), combinations of rare earths and magnesium and alloys of magnesium and nickel or copper (see u.s. patents 3,030,205-and 3,544,312). however, in all cases the addition of the magnesium or magnesium alloy has been accompanied by the evolution of smoke and flaring due to the reaction of magnesium with the heated atmosphere, attempts have been made ta plunge the magnesium addition -agent beneath the surface of the liquid cast iron in the ladle by means of a plunging bell or a gaseous stream. see, for example, u.s. patents 2,869,857, =3,080,228; 3,157,492 and 3,285,739. another approach has been to place the magnesium additive in the bottom ofthe ladle, cover it with scrap steel punchings and then tap the liquid iron into the ladle. although these mechanical devices represent an improvement, they are only partially successful and typically 50% or more of the magnesium is lost. not only is the loss of the magnesium an economic disadvantage, but alsothe concomitant production of smoke, fume and flaring-is unacceptable in view of the ever more stringent
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 c l a i m- s 1. a process for the production of a metallic composition comprising a melt containing at least two metallic constituents one of which has a melting temperature which exceeds the boiling,   temperature-of    the other at   atmospherlc    pressure,  said process being characterized by forming from a liquid melt of- said one constituent a liquid body having a depth at least suf-   flcient    to produce a static pressure head therein in excess of the vapor pressure of said other constituent at the temperature of the melt,   introducing-said    one constituent as a liquid melt at a static pressure head in excess of the vapor   pressure-of    said other constitute ent into a   chamber      metering      a-supply    of said other constituent at a predetermined rate into said chamber, retaining said one and said other constituents in said chamber to form a mixture of said constituents in which at least a portion of said other constituent is in   s-olu-    tion with said one constituent,  and withdrawing said mixture from said chamber at a rate and pressure to ensure non-volatization of said other   constituent    2 a process according to claim   l,    characterized in that   said misture    is   solidifed after    withdrawal at a static pressure head in excess of the vapor-pressure of said constituent and at a rate sufficient to retain a portion of the other constituent rejected from said mixture during cooling thereof as a dispersion of small particles in a matrix   ofsaid    one constituent.   3. the process according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that said one constituent comprises a melt of ferrous material and said other   constituent-comprîses    magnesium, sodium, strontium, lithium or calcium.   4. a process according to claim   1    characterized in that said one constituent comprises a melt of cast    of    composition and acid other   constituent    is a nodul  izing agent directly reacted in said chamber with said cast iron composition   to-'form    direct nodular iron which when withdrawn from said chamber is cast into   endb    products at ambient pressure 5. a process according to claim   4,      chaxacterized    in that said nodulizing agent is magnesium and that said cast iron composition contains   34    to   4.0°lo    carbon, 20 to 2.8 silicon, balance substantially iron and incident al impurities.   6. a process according to claim 5, characterized in that the retained magnesium content of the nodular iron is in the range of q.02 to   0.072l.      7. a process according to claim 1, characterized in that said one constituent comprises a melt of ferrous material and said other material comprises a desulfurizing agent.   8. a process according to claim 7, characterized in that said melt of ferrous material is, reacted in said chamber with said   desulfurizing    agent to form a slag containing a sulfide before being withdrawn from said chamber.   9. a process according to claim 7 or 8, characterized in that said desulfurizing agent comprises magnesium and that the quantity by weight of   magnesium    introduced into the chamber is equal to at least 75% of the quantity by weight of the sulfur desired to be removed from the ferrous melt.   10. apparatus for the production of a solid metallic composition containing at least two metallic constituents wherein the melting temperature of one of the constituents exceeds the boiling temperature of a second constituent at atmospheric pressure, characterized by furnace means (10) adapted to form a liquid body from said one constituent having a depth at least sufficient to produce a static pressure therein in excess of the vapor pressure of said second constituent at the  temperature of said liquid body, said furnace means communicating   with- a      reaction chamber    (16) at a location in said furnace means   wherein -the    static pressure is in excess of-the vapor pressure of said second constituent at the temperature of said liquid body,  second   consti    tuent melting means   t182    communicating with said reaction chamber means at one end thereof, and. means (20,22 etc) adapted rapidly to solidify said metallic composition communicating with said reaction chamber at the opposite end thereof.   11. apparatus according to claim   lo, characterized    in that said means adapted rapidly to solidify said metallic composition comprises chill mold means c20), shotting chamber means (22) or continuous casting means (144,146,148,150).   12. apparatus according to claim   for      rl    characterized in that said reaction chamber means include heating means   (68).      13. apparatus according to any one of claims 10 to 12, characterized in that freeze tube means (64) communicating with the upper region of said reaction chamber are provided to purge air which may be contained within said reaction chamber at the beginning of an operational period.    14. apparatus according to any one of claims 10 to 13, characterized   in- that. stream-    directing means (28) are provided within said reaction chamber to direct the flow of said one constituent downwardly and then upwardly adjacent the outlet end of said second constituent melting means (18) whereby the combined flow of said one and said second constituents will be inhibited from flowing back through said stream directing means into said columnar furnace.   15. apparatus according to any one of claims 10 to 14, characterized in that said second constituent   melting    means comprises an inlet orifice means (156)  in said reaction chamber means and pinch roll means (102) adapted to feed said second constituent in solid form through said orifice means into said reaction chamber.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
