<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0011464
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800528
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
H03K-7/04 H03C-1/50 H03K-7/00 H03C-1/00 H03C-3/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
circuit and method for generating modulated oscillations and a modulated oscillatory signal generated by the method
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
continental electronics mfgus<sep>continental electronics mfg. co.<sep>continental electronics mfg. co.p.o. box 270879dallas, texas 75227us <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
sainton joseph bryan us  <sep>weldon james oliverus<sep>sainton, joseph bryan<sep>weldon, james oliver<sep>sainton, joseph bryan7225 ferguson road apt 1291dallas, texas 75228us<sep>weldon, james oliver5205 park lanedallas, texasus<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a pair of square wave signals at a carrier frequency are generated and the relative phase between them is varied in accordance with a modulating signal.  the two variable phase square wave signals are applied to respective amplifier circuits both feeding a common output circuit.  each amplifier comprises two serially connected switching devices (24, 26 or 25, 27 ) fed with an input square wave signal in phase opposition.  the serial interconnections between the switching devices of each amplifier are connected to opposite ends of the primary winding of a transformer (34) forming part of the output circuit.  the secondary winding of the transformer is connected to a low-pass filter so that the resultant output is an amplitude modulated sinusoidal signal. 
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
this invention relates to electric circuit arrangements and methods for generating modulated oscillations. in conventional modulation circuits of one type, carrier oscillations are generated and amplified for application to a final or power amplifier, and separate modulating circuits are provided and connected to the power amplifier circuits for amplitude modulating of the oscillations. such circuits have relatively low efficiency, and also require a comparatively large number of elements of high current capacity. in order to overcome the disadvantages of such modulation systems, much more efficient techniques are disclosed, i.e. in u.s. patents 2,445,568, (ferguson) and 4,118,677, (weldon). in the arrangement of these references, variable width pulses of carrier frequency were generated for application to the final amplifier, the final amplifier being essentially in the form of a switching device. as a consequence, the high power modulation devices of conventional amplifying systems were avoided. these arrangements, however, required the production of variable width rectangular pulses, although they were not essentially the same as the pulse width modulation techniques disclosed, i.e. in u.s. patents 3,440,566, 3,506,920 and 3,588,744. in the publication, "high power outphasing modulation", november 1935 proceedings of the i.r.e., h. chireix describes a system wherein a pair of separate radio frequency channels having sine wave amplification derived an output at the power amplifier stage by varying the phase of the sine waves, in order to produce modulation as a result of variation of the phases of the sine waves from 1800 (for 0 output), up to 900 or more, the output being combined to deliver a signal to an antenna. the system of chireix does not, however, provide for the production of controlled energy output oscillations simply by the variation of the relative phases of waves, in accordance with the present invention. the present invention is directed to a provision for overcoming the disadvantages of prior art arrangements for the generation of modulated oscillations. according to the present invention, defined in claim 1 hereof, there is provided an electronic circuit arrangement for generating modulated oscillations comprising generating means for generating two separate square wave signals at a carrier frequency, means for varying the relative phase between the said square wave signals in accordance with a modulating signal, and an output circuit coupled to receive said square wave signals and provide an output dependent on the relative phase therebetween. the said invention includes a said circuit arrangement wherein there are two amplifier circuits for amplifying the said respective square wave signals and said output circuit is connected to both of said amplifier circuits to yield output oscillations which are amplitude modulated in dependence on the phase difference between the square waves. the present invention also includes a method of generating modulated oscillations comprising the steps of generating two separate square wave signals at a carrier frequency, varying the relative phase between said signals in accordance with a modulating signal, and combining said signals of variable relative phase in a manner such that the resultant output signal has an amplitude which is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims   1. an electronic circuit arrangement for generating modulated oscillations comprising generating means for generating two separate square wave signals at a carrier frequency, means for varying the relative phase between the said square wave signals in accordance with a modulating signal, and an output circuit coupled to receive said square wave signals and provide an output dependent on the relative phase therebetween.   2. the circuit arrangement as claimed in claim 1 in which the means for varying the relative phase between the said square wave signals operates to vary the relative phase as a square law function of the modulating signal.   3. the circuit arrangement as claimed in either one of the preceding claims and including two amplifier circuits for amplifying the said respective square wave signals and in which the said output circuit is connected to both of said amplifier circuits to receive a signal proportional to the difference between the outputs of the said amplifier circuits.   4. the circuit arrangement as claimed in claim 3 in which each of the said amplifier circuits comprises a pair of switching devices having serially connected outputs and means applying one of the square wave signals to said devices in phase opposition whereby the interconnected switching devices are alternately conductive.   5. the circuit arrangement as claimed in claim 4 in which the said output circuit includes impedance means connected between the serial interconnections of the switching devices in the respective amplifier circuits.   6. the circuit arrangement as claimed in claim 5 in which the said impedance means comprises the primary winding of a transformer.   7. the circuit arrangement as claimed in claim 6 in which the said output circuit includes a low-pass filter connected to a secondary winding of the said  transformer and arranged to pass oscillations at the carrier frequency.   8. the circuit arrangement as claimed in claim 7 in which the said low-pass filter is a t filter.   9. the circuit arrangement as claimed in any one of claims 6 to 8 in which   antenna    means are coupled to a secondary winding of the said transformer to enable oscillations at said carrier frequency to be radiated.   10. the circuit arrangement as claimed in any one of claims 4 to 9 in which the said switching devices are transistors.   11. the circuit arrangement as claimed in any one of claims 4 to 9 in which said devices comprise thermionic tubes.   12. the circuit arrangement as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 11 in which the means for varying the relative phase between the square wave signals operates to vary the phase of one of said signals while the phase of the other of said signals is maintained constant, 13. the circuit arrangement as claimed in claim 12 in which the generating means includes means for generating two trains of ramp signals at the carrier frequency but displaced from each other by half the carrier period and in which the phase varying means includes two comparators in each of which a respective ramp signal train is compared with a modulating signal to generate a trigger pulse when the instantaneous value of the modulating signal exceeds the instantaneous value of the ramp signal,  the respective trigger pulses from the comparators being used to define the start and finish of the square waves of the said one of said square wave signals.   14. the circuit arrangement as claimed in claim 13 in which the means for generating two  trains of ramp signals comprises means for generating a pair of square wave signals at half the carrier frequency and displaced from each other by half the carrier period and means for providing ramp signals in each half cycle of the said pair of square wave signals.   15. the circuit arrangement as claimed in claim 14 in which the means for generating a pair of square wave signals at half the carrier frequency comprises an oscillator for generating a single square wave signal at the carrier frequency and two divide-by-two circuits arranged to be fed respectively with said square wave signal and with said square wave signal inverted.   16. the circuit arrangement as claimed in any one of claims 13 to 15 in which the slopes of the ramps of said ramp signals have a square law characteristic.   17. a method of generating modulated oscillations comprising the steps of generating two separate square wave signals at a carrier frequency, varying the relative phase between said signals in accordance with a modulating signal, and combining said signals of variable relative phase in a manner such that the resultant output signal has an amplitude which is a function of the said relative phase.   18. the method as claimed in claim 17 in which the relative phase is varied as a square law function of the modulating signal.   19. the method as claimed in claim 17 or claim 18 and including the steps of converting the  resultant output signal to a sine wave signal.   20. the method as claimed in claim 19 in which the said converting step comprises applying the resultant output signal to a low-pass filter arranged to pass signals at the carrier frequency.   21. the method as claimed in any one of claims 17 to 20 and including the step of amplifying the variable phase square wave signals by applying each of said signals to a respective pair of serially connected switching devices in phase opposition.    22. the method as claimed in claim 21 in which the said step of combining the said signals comprises applying the outputs at the serial interconnections between the switching devices to opposite ends of an impedance means and deriving the resultant output signal from the voltage across the said impedance means.      23.    the method as claimed in claim 22 in which the said impedance means comprises the primary winding of a transformer.   24. a modulated oscillatory signal generated by the method claimed in any one of claims 17 to 23.   25. an electronic circuit arrangement for generating modulated oscillations characterised in that it comprises means for combining two separate square wave signals at a carrier frequency and of varying relative phase and for providing an output depending on such relative phase,  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
