<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0007741
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800206
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
G01M-1/00 G01M-1/28 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
a method and device for balancing a vehicle wheel.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
gkn transmissions ltdgb<sep>gkn transmissions limited<sep>gkn transmissions limitedp.o. box 405 chester road erdington, birmingham b24 0rbgb<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
forster brian michael gb<sep>scholfield ian macdonaldgb<sep>forster, brian michael<sep>scholfield, ian macdonald<sep>forster, brian michael11, casson drive harthillsheffield, s31 8wagb<sep>scholfield, ian macdonald124, longedge lane wingerworthchesterfield, s42 6ppgb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
an electronic wheel balancer intended primarily but not  exclusively for front wheels of front wheel drive cars is such  that it can be used by a single operator, who operates the  engine from the driving seat to drive the wheels and also  observes the criteria for balancing the wheels.  the front  wheels (12) are supported off the ground by supports (15)  engaged with the suspension and incorporating force trans­ ducers (16).  the wheels are provided with marks (21) at a  datum rotational position and transducers (19) to indicate  when the wheels are in these positions.  the phase relation­ ship between the output of each force transducer (16) and the  datum position signal is derived electronically and displayed  to indicate the angular position for application of balancing  weights on the wheel.  the value of the required balancing  weight is derived from the output of the force transducers.   position and weight signals are displayed on a portable dis­ play unit (23).  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
wheel balancers the invention relates to wheel balancers for balancing wheels mounted in position on a vehicle. conventional on-the-vehicle wheel balaneers use a spinner to rotate a wheel to be balanced up to a suitable speed which may be 110 to 130 kph while the wheel to be balanced is raised off the ground on a support incorporating a force transducer. the most important wheels to be balanced are the front wheels. if the front wheels are not driven from the vehicle engine there is no difficulty in rotating one front wheel at the desired speed. however if the front wheels are driven through a conventicnal differential, it is detrimental to the differential to rotate one wheel at the appropriate speed while the other wheel is held stationary on the ground. one way in which this problem has been overcome is to raise both front wheels from the ground simultaneously and to use tne engine of the vehicle to drive the wheels at a suitable speed. the required value of a balancing weight is derived from the maximum value of a cyclically varying load signal from the force transducer which represents the ous of balance force of the rotating wheel and the position of the required weight around the periphery of the wheel is indicated by a stroboscope triggered by a reference point in the cyclicallv variable load signal. a problem assocjated with this prc@@dure is that it requires two operaters, one to operate th controls of the vehicle and the other to observe the position of the wheel indicated by the stroboseope, normally by noting the rotational position at which the conventional tyre drive is illuminated. not only does this require one more operator than the conventional single wheel bala@eing operation using a spin@er, but the two ope@ater@ have to co-ordinate their aetivities in the noisy environment assoeiated with the running engine. it has been proposed in u.k. patent specification no. 1, 129,477 to use a photo-detector and a patch on the whcel to sense a datum rotational portion of a wheel being balanced and to derive the required position for a weight from the phase relationship between an out of balance signal and a datum signal from the photo-detector. however, this known system does not operate at a pre-determined wheel speed with the result that there is no clear relationship between the amplitude of the out of balance signal and the required eight from which it follows that several different weights have to be used on a trial and error basis. this complicates the operation of the system. also, the controls are not made available to an operator at the controls of the vehicle, so one operator is required for the vehiclc controls and another for the wheel balancer controls. an object of the present invention is to provide an on the-vehicle wheel balancer which can be used for the engine driven wheels of a vehicle and which can be operated by a single operator. however the use
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims   1. a wheel balancer for balancing a wheel mounted in position on a vehicle and of the kind comprising: a support for engagement with the vehicle adjacent to a wheel and for supporting part of the vehicle with the wheel off the ground, a force transducer arranged to sense cyclic variations in the load on the support associated with out of balance forces during rotation of the   wheel    and thereby produce a cyclically varying load signal, means for deriving a weight signal proportional to the maximum value of the load signal, means for displaying the weight signal to indicate the value of a balance weight needed to balance the wheel, and manual controls for the wheel balancer characterised by the provision of a position transducer arranged to provide a datum position signal when the wheel is rotating and passes a datum rotational position,  means for deriving the phase relationship between the weight signal   snd    the datum position signal to provide an angle signal indicative of the position of the out of balance force in relation to the datum position, and a portable control and display unit capable of being positioned where it is visible to and operable by an operator sitting in the driving seat of the vehicle for controlling the wheel balancer and displaying weight and angle signals indicative of the requirements for balaneing the wheel.   2. a wheel balancer as claimed in claim 1 for balancing a   pair    of wheels   incorporating      two    such supports, force transducers and position transdueers, one for each wheel, the supports, force transducer   nnd    position transducers being connected to a common control and display unit.   3. a   wheel    balancer as   claimed    in claim 1 or   claim    2 wherein the means for deriving the phase relationship comprises means for generating a series of counting   pulse@     from the load signal, the counting pulses sub-dividing each cycle of the load signal into intervals   reprcsentativ(.    of angles of wheel rotation, means for generating a starting pulse at a specific phase position of the load signal and mcans for counting the number of counting pulses between the start pulse and the datum position to provide an indication of said phase relationship.   4. a wheel balancer as claimed in claim 3 in which the counting pulses are derived by detecting   when    the load signal itself and other functions derived from the load signal pass through zero.   5. a wheel balancer as claimed in claim   h    in which the load signal is defined as f and the derived signals are: df df df dt; f + dt and f - dt 6. a wheel balancer as claimed in claim 5 in which counting pulses are always required at a particular nominal wheel spood and further counting pulses are derived by a spccifie time delay from each of the previously derived pulses equivalent to half of the nominal time between the previously derived pulses based on the nominal wheel speed.   7. a wheel balancer as claimed in any one of the preceding claims in which the or each position transducer is con- stituted by a reflective mark applied to the wheel and a   1 wight    sores and photo-detecter   arrane4      so      tt    the   nhotn-    detector responds to the   passage    of tlie   mark    past the detector during rotation of the wheel and thereby provides the datum   politics      signal.      8. a method of balancing a pair of driven wheels of a vehicle   inc]uding    the   step    of:  said wheels off the ground on supports arranged adjacent to the   wheels    and incorporation force transducers   arranged    to sense cyclic variations in   time    loads   on    the  supports and thereby produce cyclically variable load signals during rotation of the wheels,   applying    a mark to each of said wheels and arranging a detector in relation to each wheel to respond to the passage of the mark past the detector during rotation of the wheel and thereby produce a datum position signal, rotating the wheels at a pre-selected speed from the engine of the vehicle under the control of an operator at the driving controls of the vehicle,   deriving a weight signal proportional to the maximum value of each load signal, deriving the phase relationship   between    each weight signal and its associated datum position signal to provide an angle signal indicative of the position of tht out of balance force in relation to the datum position, displaying weight and angle signals indicative of requirements for balancing the wheels to the operator whilst at the vehicle controls, bringing the wheels to rest, and applying balance weights of the indicated value to the wheels at the indicated angles with respect to the datum position.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
