<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0007223
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800123
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
F16D-3/38 F16D-3/16 F16C-21/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
improvements in or relating to roller bearings.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
torrington cous<sep>the torrington company limited<sep>the torrington company59 field streettorrington, connecticut 06790us<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
ishikawa tatsuojp<sep>ishikawa, tatsuo<sep>ishikawa, tatsuoof 4-16, ohgi-cho, 2-chomeodawara-shi, kanagawa-kenjp<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
for use more particularly in universal joints, the invention  provides a closed end roller bearing (3) of which the cylindri­ cal race wall (43) is closed at one axial end by a centrally  recessed end wall (41) provided with a plurality of circularly  distributed, upstanding convex projections (46) which are of  circular or elliptical shape in plan view, with their major axes  (where present) directed radially of the end wall (41).  a trunn­ ion (2) of the universal joint (1) is supported by the bearing (3)  in a yoke (7) and lubricant stored both in the central recess (42)  of the end wall (41) and in a circumferentially directed groove  (44) between the end wall (41) and the cylindrical wall (43) is  distributed by convex projections (46) between the end wall  and the end face of the trunnion as a result of relative rotary  oscillatory movement between the two.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
description "improvements in order relating to roliep. bearings". this invention concerns roller bearings and relates more particularly to such bearings including an outer race having one of its axial ends closed. for convenicnce, bearings including an outer race member having this characteristic will hereinafter be referred to as closed end bearings. an important example of the use of closed end bearings is in universal joints, wherein the sliding contact surfaces between a trunnion end face of the joint and the closed end wall of the outer race member of the co-operating bearing require good lubrication because of the occasional thrust or pressure contact between them. generally, the end face of the trunnion and the end wall surface of the outer race of the blaring effect oscillatory sliding rotation (hereinafter simply referred to as oscillatory rotation) while making pressure contact therebetween so that the formation of a lubricant film between the two surfaces is difficult. this leads to a problem in that friction and heat are created due to insufficient lubrication. in practice, the aforementioned contact surfaces have suffered from greater problems than might be apparent because they do not effect a surface contact but in most cases they effect localized contact, sometimes referred to as wedging" due to the inclination of the trunnion and the yoke of the universal joint. is one way of meeting such problems, it has already been proposed, for example, to provide an oil groove in one or both of the mutually contacting surfaces, bt# the simple provision of such an oil groove as a lubricant reservoir cannot result in a sufficient lubri#ating performance and is not wholly effective in practice. it has also been proposed to provide one of the ontactlng members with circumferentially directed, convex ridge menxis but the relatively large surface contact area or areas presented by such ridge means appear to hinder the satisfactory introduction of oil between the contacting members during oscillatory motion. the present invention accordingly provides a closed end roller bearing including an outer race member comprising a cylindrical wall providing a raceway lor the bearing rollers, a centrally recessed end wall closing one axial end of said cylindrical wall and a circumferentially directed groove or recess between said cylindrical wall and said end wall, said groove and the recess in said end wall acting as lubricant reservoirs, characterised in that the portion of the end wall between the recess and the circumferentially directed groove is plane or flat and is provided intermediate the radially outer periphery of said recess and the radially inner periphery of said groove with a plurality of axially directed, upstanding convex portions of circular or elliptical or similar configuration, said convex portions being circularly spaced around said plane or flat portion, with the major axes of elliptical convex portions being directed radially of said end wall. when the bearing provided by the invention is used to support a trunnion of the cruciform member of a, universal joint, lubricant stored in the central recess and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims.      1.    a closed end roller bearing including an outer race member   comprising    a cylindrical wall providing a raceway for the bearing rollers, a centrally recessed end wall closing one axial end of said cylindrical wall and a circumferentially directed groove or recess between said cylindrical wall and said end   wall,    said groove and the recess in said end wall acting as lubricant reservoirs, characterised in that the portion (45 or 145) of the end wall (41 or 141) between the recess (42 or 144) is plane or flat and is provided intermediate the radially outer periphery of said recess and the radially inner periphery of said groove with a plurality of axially directed, upstanding convex portions (46 or 146) of circular or elliptical or similar configuration,  said convex portions being circularly spaced around said plane or flat portion (45 or   145),    with the major axes of elliptical convex portions being directed radially of said end wall.    2. a roller bearing as claimed in claim 1, in which the convex portions(46 or 146) all lie in a single common circular row situated intermediate said radially inner and outer   paripheriesv       3.    a roller bearing as claimed in claim 2, in which said circular row is sited on the mean radius of said plane or flat portion (45 or 145).      4.    a roller bearing as claimed in claim 1, in which the convex portions   t46    or 146) lie in a plurality of circular rows of differing diameter situated intermediate said radially inner and outer peripheries, with the convex portions in each row being circularly staggered relative to those in the other rows.    5. a roller bearing as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4, in which at least the top surfaces of the convex portions (46 or 146) are given a gentle curvature.      6. a roller   bearing    as   c1#ined    in any one of claims 1 to 4, in which at least the top surfaces of the convex portions (46 or 146) are of conical configuration.    7. a roller bearing as claimed in claim 5, in which the convex portions (46 or 146) are semi-spherical in shape.    8. a roller bearing as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, in which the convex portions   (46    or 146) have an axial height lying in the range 0.03 mm to 0.2   mm.       9. a roller bearing as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, in which the plane or flat portion (45 or 145) is axially inwardly inclined from the radially inner periphery of the groove (44 or 144) to the radially outer periphery of the recess (42 or 142).    10. a roller bearing as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, in which the rollers (5 or 105) are needle rollers.    11. a roller bearing as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, in which the outer race member (4) is a pressed sheet metal or shell-type race.    12. a roller bearing as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 10, in which the outer race member (104) is a solid race machined or hot-or-cold-forged from a solid body.    13. a universal joint incorporating roller bearings as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterised in that each trunnion (2 or 102) of the cruciform member of the joint is supported by one of   said bearings-      and    that   i'ibricant    in the recess (42 or 142) and groove (44 or 144) is distributed by the convex portions (46 or 146) between the end wall (41 or 141) of the outer race member and the adjacent end face of the trunnion responsive to relative   rotary    oscillation between said race member and said trunnion.         14.      a    roller bearing comprising: an outer race having a closed end for supporting a universal joint, said outer race also having a continuous circumferential groove adjacent the outside periphery of the closed end, the closed end having a recess centrally thereof, a cylindrical side wall contiguous to the closed end, and a plurality of separated projections on the flat portion between said recess and said circumferential groove, each projection having a radial length at least as great as its circumferential length.    15. universal joints and roller bearings therefor, constructed, arranged and adapted to operate   s'ibstantially    as hereinbefore described with reference to and as illustrated in the accompanying drawings.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
