<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0017127
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19801015
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<main>B01L-3/14</main> B01L-3/14 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
a method for separating blood and a barrier device therefor.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
terumo corpjp<sep>terumo corporation<sep>terumo corporation44-1, 2-chome, hatagaya shibuya-kutokyo 151jp<sep>terumo corporation<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
ikeda tatsuhiko<sep>terada sohichiro<sep>ikeda, tatsuhiko<sep>terada, sohichiro<sep>ikeda, tatsuhiko3-15, 2-chome, kohkandohri kawasaki-kukawasaki-shi kanagawajp<sep>terada, sohichiro2-1-306, 3-chome, ochiaitama-shi tokyojp<sep>ikeda, tatsuhiko  <sep>terada, sohichiro<sep>ikeda, tatsuhiko3-15, 2-chome, kohkandohri kawasaki-kukawasaki-shi kanagawajp<sep>terada, sohichiro2-1-306, 3-chome, ochiaitama-shi tokyojp<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
disclosed is a method for centrifuging serum which  comprises the steps of introducing a barrier having an elastic  porous member at least as its principal part into a blood-­ collecting tube and centrifuging serum, the elastic porous  member having a porosity of 40 % or more, a continuous-­ pore size of 50 to 400 µ, and a cross-section larger than that  of the blood-collecting tube.  also disclosed is a barrier (3) to  be introduced into a blood-collecting tube (1), comprising an  elastic porous member having a porosity of 40 % or more, a  continuous-pore size of 50 to 400 µ, and a cross-section  larger than that of the blood-collecting tube (1), the bottom  portion of the elastic porous member preferably being a  relatively hard portion (100, 111) with smaller outside  diameter.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
a method for separating blood and a barrier device there for this invention relates to a method for separating blood into a solid part including blood corpuscles and a liquid serum by centrifugation, and a barrier used for such method. in a blood test, blood is generally separated by centrifugation into serum and cellular solid matters such as blood corpuscles, and only the serum is collected for analysis and examination. according to a well-known method for separating the serum, blood collected in a test tube is centrifuged, material such as gel material composed of silicone-silica which has an intermediate specific gravity between those of the serum and cellular solid matters is put in the test tube, the gel material is interposed between the serum and cellular matters by centrifugation, and the serum is separated by decantation. in this case, however, it is difficult to perfectly prevent fibrin and other solid matters from being mixed in the serum. such mixing of blood corpuscles, fibrin, etc. in the serum is undesirable because it may cause clogging of instrument nozzles as well as errors in measurement. accordingly, as a blood separator capable of preventing such mixing in the serum, there is proposed a piston member in which a solid weight for specific gravity adjustment is coupled with a flexible filter member which is large enough to be in slidable contact with the inside wall of a blood-collecting tube, and having a specific gravity of from 1.03 to 1.09 as a whole is inserted in the blood-collecting tube (united states patent no. 3,931,018). formed of two submembers with different specific gravities, porous and solid submembers that are bonded together, the piston member is not an entirely satisfactory structure, requiring much labor in manufacture. the invention as claimed has been developed in consideration of the above circumstances, and is intended to provide a remedy by a method for separating blood and a device there for capable of simplifying manufacture and reducing production cost without any possibility of causing blood cells, fibrin, and other solid matters to be mixed with serum. according to the invention, there is provided a method for separating blood collected in a blood-collecting tube into a serum part and a solid component part by centrifugation, comprising the steps of introducing a barrier formed of an elastic porous member into the bloodcollecting tube, the elastic porous member having porosity of 40 or more, a continuous-pore size of 50 to 400 an overall true specific gravity greater than that of the serum part,and a larger cross-section in at least part thereof and perpendicular to the axial direction thereof than that of the blood-collecting tube; moving the elastic porous member to the interface between a serum part layer and a solid component layer in the blood by centrifugal force produced in centrifuging the blood, and separating the serum in the blood. further, according to the invention, there is provided a barrier for centrifugation of blood which comprises an elastic porous member having porosity of 40
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:   1. a method for separating blood collected in a bloodcollecting tube into a serum part and a solid component part by centrifugation, comprising the steps of introducing a barrier formed of an elastic porous member into said blood-collecting tube, said elastic porous member having porosity of 40   %    or more, a continuous-pore size of 50 to   400 ,    an overall true specific gravity greater than that of said serum part, and a larger cross section in at least part thereof and perpedicular to the axial direction thereof than that of said blood-collecting tube; moving said elastic porous member to the interface between a serum part layer and a solid component layer in the blood by centrifugal force produced in centrifuging the blood; and separating the serum in the blood.   2. a method according to claim 1, wherein said elastic porous member is previously fixedly disposed in said bloodcollecting tube kept at a vacuum, before the blood is collected in said blood-collecting tube.   3. a method according to claim 2, wherein the fixed position of said elastic porous member in said bloodcollecting tube lies at one end of said tube on the blood intake side thereof.   4. a method according to claim 2, wherein the fixed position of said elastic porous member in said bloodcollecting tube lies at the other end of said tube opposite to said blood intake side.   5. a method according to claim 1, wherein said elastic porous member is fitted in said blood-collecting tube after the blood is collected in said tube.   6. a method according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein a tube member having smaller outside diameter than the  inside diameter of said blood-collecting tube is fitted on part of the peripheral side of said elastic porous member, the combination of said tube member and said elastic porous member having greater true specific gravity than that of said serum part.   7. a method according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the true specific gravity of said elastic porous member is greater than that of said serum part and is also greater than that of the solid component layer in the blood to such a degree that said solid component. layer is substantially not destroyed during centrifugation.   8. a method according to claim 6, wherein the true specific gravity of the combination of said tube member and said elastic porous member is greater than that of said serum part and is also greater than that of the solid component layer in the blood to such a degree that said solid component layer is substantially not destroyed during centrifugation.   9. a method according to claim 1, wherein said elastic porous member is formed in the shape of a truncated cone which has cross-sections substantially larger and smaller than that of the interior of said blood-collecting tube at the upper and lower portions respectively, and is bottomed with a hard layer, and wherein the overall specific gravity of said elastic porous member including said hard layer is greater than that of said serum part.   10. a method according to claim 1, wherein the overall true specific gravity of said barrier is greater than that of blood corpuscles.   11. a barrier for contrifugation of blood to be introduced into a blood-collecting tube (1), characterized by an elastic porous member (3, 24, 31, 42, 52, 62, 72, 82, 92, 110) having porosity of 40 % or more, a continuous-pore  size of 50 to   400)r,    an overall true specific gravity greater than that of serum, and, at least at a part thereof, a cross-section a little larger than that of said bloodcollecting tube (1).   12. a barrier according to claim 11, wherein said elastic porous member (31, 42, 92) is in the form of a column the diameter of which is a little larger than the inside diameter of said blood-collecting tube (1).   13. a barrier according to claim 11, wherein said elastic porous member (3, 24, 31, 42, 52, 62, 72, 82, 92 or 110) is in the form of a bottomed cylinder the diameter of which is a little larger than the inside diameter of said bloodcollecting tube (1).   14. a barrier according to claim 12 or 13, wherein a tube member (100) having smaller outside diameter than the inside diameter of said blood-collecting tube (1) is fitted on part of the peripheral side of said elastic porous member (31), the combination of said tube member (100) and said elastic porous member (31) having a greater true specific gravity than that of said serum part.   15. a barrier according to claim 11, wherein said elastic porous member (42, 72) has one or more annular projections (41, 71) formed on the peripheral surface thereof, the outside diameter of said annular projection (41, 71) being a little larger than the inside diameter of said bloodcollecting tube (1).   16. a barrier according to any one of claim 11 to 13, wherein said elastic porous member (3, 24, 31, 42, 52, 62, 72, 82, 92, 110) is made of elastic plastic foam.   17. a barrier according to claim 11, wherein said elastic porous member (82 or 110) is formed in the shape of a truncated cone which has   crossaections    substantially  larger and smaller than that of the interior of said blood-collecting tube (1) at the upper and lower   portions,    respectively, and is bottomed with a hard layer (111), and wherein the overall specific gravity of said elastic porous member (82 or 110) including said hard layer (111) is greater than that of said serum part.    18. a barrier according to claim 11, wherein said hard layer (111) is formed of hard plastic which is impregnated into the bottom portion of said elastic porous member   (e.g.    110) and solidified.   19. a barrier according to claim 11, wherein said hard layer (111) is formed of a hard plastic sheet which is put on the bottom surface of said elastic porous member (e.g. 110).   20. a barrier according to claim 11, wherein said hard layer (111) is formed of a hard plastic mesh which is put on the bottom surface of said elastic porous member (e.g. 110).  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
