<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0012775
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800709
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
D21H-17/00 D21H-17/23 D21C-1/00 A23K-1/00 <main>D21C-3/16</main> D21C-3/22 D21C-3/16 D21H-3/18 C05F-7/02 C05F-7/00 D21C-3/00 A23K-1/12 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
process for pulping ligno-cellulosic material.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
prior eric s<sep>prior, eric s.<sep>prior, eric s.830 signal baycoos bay oregon 97420us<sep>prior, eric s.<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
prior eric s<sep>prior, eric s.<sep>prior, eric s.830 signal baycoos bay oregon 97420us<sep>prior, eric s.<sep>prior, eric s.830 signal baycoos bay oregon 97420us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a process for making defibered pulp material compris­ ing the steps of treating fibrous ligno-cellulosic material with  aqueous nitric acid (10,17) having an hno₃ concentration of  about 0. 15 to 9. 0 wt. % and containing aluminium sulphate in  an amount of about 0. 8 to 1. 3 parts per each 10 parts by  weight of hno₃, or to alternatively use for grassy fibrous  materials nitrate salts such as nano₃ or kno₃ or nh₄no₃,  so as to nitrate ligneous component of said material; and  thereafter defibering directly, (15,21) or treating the nitrated  ligno-cellulosic material with alkali to separate the ligneous  component from the cellulosic pulp, and, optionally, recom­ bining a part or all of the ligneous component with the cel­ lulosic pulp.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
accelerated pulping process this invention relates to an improved process of making fibre in a form ranging from a moderately digested product fit for animal feed to pulps that can be utilized as conventional semi-chemical, chemical types for packaging papers or fully delignified pulps for bleaching from fibrous, ligno-cellulosic raw material, more particularly, it relates to a nitration pulping process using nitric acid or nitrate salts in which the time required for nitration and the second step extraction of the nitrated ligneous components in the fibrous raw material is substantially shortened due to the inclusion in the nitric acid of a small amount of aluminium sulphate (paper maker's alum), and by use of the inherent flexibility of the process time, temperature and chemical concentration , the utilization of controlled delignification to produce animal feed, building board, packaging boards and paper. so far as i am aware, nitric acid pulping processes, of which many have been proposed, have never been carercially successful for various reasons, chief among which is the relatively long chemical treatment time that they required far exceeding the present day conventional methods. shortened times were possible if strong nitric acid was used, or if pressurized vessels and high temperatuns were employed, but those conditions create other problems such as excessive and explosive emission of toxic nitrogen oxide fumes and damage to the cellulosic fibre structure. moreover, recovery of the acid has not been possible, and the use of relatively concentrated nitric acid, e.g. 15 to 42 t.by wt.hno3, becomes therefore prohibitively expensive. in short, the nitric acid pulping processes heretofore proposed have offered no advantages and many disadvantages over present day conventional systems. as recently as 1960 a published comprehensive review on nitric acid pulping by crown zellerbach corporation stated that while nitric acid was specific for the reaction with lignin, the use of acid reagent was excessive and uneconomicland pollution problems remained unsolved. the process of this invention uses only 0.15 - 9.0% nitric acid in relation to fibre yield which, together with the alkali used for delignification, is no more than with conventio- nal methods of pulping without chemical recovering systems while eliminating the complex requirements of recovery and/ or manufacture of the cooking liquors. furthermore, since the process is a two step one, the nitrating solution can, except for that absorbed in the fibre structure, be recovered virtually intact and recycled. more importantly, unlike previous attempts with nitric acid, this new process does not dissolve the lignin content of fibrous structures in the acid stage. conventional pulp mills require high investment due to the high temperatures and pressure involved, and if water and air pollution is controlled and chemical recovery is practiced costs are substantially higher. the process of this invention uses simple chemicals available in crystall:ne or dissolved form, does not require superatmospheric pressure, or temperatures over 100 c, offers minimal problems of air and water pollution, and offers economic usability of the products normally wasted by burning or dumping. i have now discovered
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims   1. a process for treating fibrous ligno-cellulosic   material    to form defibered pulp material comprising the steps of submerging in   or    spraying of the fibrous ligno-cellulosic material with aqueous nitric acid having an hno, concentration of about 0.15 to 9.0 wt.% and containing   aluminum    sulphate in an amount of about 0.8 to 1.3 parts per each 10 parts by   wight    of   hno3,or    to alternatively use for grassy fibrous materials nitrate salts such as nano3 or kno3 or nh4no3, so as   to.nitrate    ligneous component    of said material    draining the nitrated ligno-cellulosic material from said nitric acid and thereafter defibering directly by mechanical means to obtain said pulp material,  or treating the said nitrated ligno-cellulosic material with an alkaline   extraction    liquor so as to dissolve ligneous component out of t.he material and separating the resultant   cellulosic      puir      from    the lignin containing extraction liquor as well as   op+'ionally,      recombining    a part or all of the ligneous   cdm-     ponent of the lignin containing extraction liquor with the cellulosic pulp.   2. the process of claim 1 wherein the fibrous ligno-cellulosic material is submerged in or treated by recycling in nitrating solution at a temperature of about   85    to 1100c, preferably 85 to 1000c; in particular wherein both the submersion step and the cooking step are conducted under approximately atmospheric pressure conditions and the hno3 concentration in the nitrating step is about 0.3 to 5.5 percent by weight; in particular wherein the fibrous lignocellulosic material is submerged or subjected to treatment by recycling in the nitrating solution for about 5 to   30    minutes; in particular wherein the ligno-cellulosic material is woody material, grassy material, or waste paper containing mechanical pulp or semi-chemical fibres;  in particular wherein the submersion step and the cooking step are conducted under atmospheric pressure conditions and the fibrous ligno-cellulosic material is submerged in or treated by the nitrating solution for about 10 to 20 minutes; in particular wherein pressures of 15 to 35   p.s.i.q.    are used in the nitrating process holding temperatures from 85 to 1100c, preferably 85 to   100 c;    in particular wherein pressures of 100 to 150 p.s.i.g. are used in the nitrating process holding temperatures between 85 and   11 00c,    preferably 85 and   1000c.      3. the process of claim 1 or 2, wherein the alkaline extraction liquor is an aqueous solution of sodium   hydroi-    de, potassium hydroxide, or ammonium hydroxide containing about 0.1 to 0.5 wt.% naoh, koh or   nh40h;    in particular wherein the alkaline extraction liquor is an aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide containing about 0.1 to 0.5   wt.      naoh, the fibrous ligno-cellulosic material is submerged in the nitrating solution at a temperature of about 90 to 950c and the nitrated ligno-cellulosic material has its binding material removed; in particular wherein the alkali  ne extraction liquor is an aqueous solution of potassium hydroxide, the lignin containing extraction liquor is mixed with phosphoric acid to precipitate the ligneous component out of the solution and the ligneous   componenr    is separated from its acidic mother liquor to obtain a flocculated concentrated ligneous material; in particular wherein the nitrated ligno-cellulosic material is treated in the alkaline extraction liquor at a temperature of about 75 to 1000c for grassy and woody fibrous structures;  in particular wherein the nitrated ligno-cellulosic material is treated in the alkaline extraction liquor of about 40 to 500c for grassy fibrous structures.   4. the process of any of the preceeding claims wherein the ligneous component is obtained by mixing the lignin containing extraction liquor with acidic reagent to cause ligneous component to precipitate out of solution, following which said precipitated ligneous component is separated from its acidic mother liquor; in particular wherein the acidic reagent is nitric acid, phosporic acid or aluminum sulphate; in particular wherein the acidic reagent is nitric acid and the acidic mother liquor is used as a source of nitric acid for the precipitation step; in particular wherein the precipitated   ligneous    component prior to be mixed with the cellulosic pulp, is redissolved in water with sufficient alkaline reagent to render the ligneous component soluble in water;  in particular wherein the alkaline reagent is sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide or ammonium hydroxide; in particular wherein the flocculated concentrated ligneous material, optionally in combination with a deliquescence inhibiting amount of diatomaceous earth is added to quick draining soils to promote chemical retention and hygroscopic properties.   5. the process of any of the preceeding claims wherein the lignin containing extraction liquor or the redissolved  ligneous component is combined with neutralized urea and fortified rosin size to extend rosin size; in particular wherein the lignin-containing extraction liquor or the precipitated ligneous component or the redissolved ligneous component is combined with starch to produce water   repelie-.-    cy or sizing; in particular wherein the   lignin-conianning    extraction liquor or the redissolved ligneous component is mixed with resins such as melamine resin or phenolic resin to act as an extender; in particular wherein the nitrated lignin can be solubilized with an alkaline solution at low temperatures of 15 to 500c.   6. the process of any of the preceeding claims wherein the separated ligneous component is combined in precipitated (concentrated) or non-precipitated form with   paper:ak    fibre.    7. the process of any of the preceeding claims wherein the recombination of the ligneous component with said cellulosic pulp is performed by applying a foam of the precipitated or non-precipitated ligneous component onto a web of the cellulosic pulp at the size press or wet presses; in particular wherein the recombination of the ligneous component with said cellulosic pulp is performed by adding the lignin-containing extraction liquor to the slurry of the cellulosic pulp and precipitating the ligneous component by acidification.       8.    the process of any of the preceeding claims wherein the nitrating solution can be sprayed on air dry grassy agricultural residues and nitrates the said residue lignin components   duriri    storage without use of heat permitting     delignification and defibering at a later date; in parti  cular wherein the nitrating solution can be sprayed or  foamed on air dry agricultural residues and followed  immediately with sprayed or foamed alkaline liquor which  releases a ligneous binder "in situ" when the moist mass  is subjected to heat and pressure.    9.the process of any of the preceeding claims wherein  the digestibility of agricultural residues for animals  is improved.   10. a fertilizer composition comprising the ligneous material of claim 4 in a mixture with a deliquescence inhibiting amount of diatomaceous earth.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
