<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0013180
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800709
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
F02B-41/06 F02B-41/00 F02B-41/10 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
internal combustion engine for compound use.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
hill craig chilton<sep>hill, craig chilton  <sep>hill, craig chiltonwinter streetlincoln massachusetts 01773us<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
hill craig chilton<sep>hill, craig chilton<sep>hill, craig chiltonwinter streetlincoln massachusetts 01773us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
an internal combustion piston engine operates without a  blowdown phase and is compounded with a turbine (18) utiliz­ ing substantially steady inlet pressure.  a compressor (1)  delivers air compressed to at least that steady pressure to the  inlet port (3) of a combustion chamber (13) whose exhaust  port (16) is ducted to the turbine's inlet (17).  fuel is added to  the compressed air in the chamber (13) and upon ignition of  the charge, the piston (5) is driven in a power producing  expansion stroke.  0n each upstroke of the combustion  chamber piston (5), combustion products pass through the  exhaust port (16) into the turbine inlet duct (17) while the  compressed air simultaneously enters the chamber (13)  through the inlet port (3).  by late closure of the inlet and  exhaust ports to restrict compression ratio and by regulation  of the quantity of fuel burned per combustion period, the  combined pressure rise in the chamber from compression  and fuel combustion is limited to a value equal to or less than  the subsequent chamber pressure decrease from the piston  expansion stroke.  preferably, several cyclically phased com­ bustion chambers provide substantially steady exhaust flow  to the turbine.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
this invention relates in general to heat engines and more particularly pertains to an internal combustion engine of high thermal efficiency which utilizes a first expansion stage having a positive displacement element that is moved by the expanding gases to produce some power and utilizes a steady-flow turbine in a subsequent expansion stage to produce additional power. this application is a continuation-in-part of my application serial no. 19 which was filed in the u.s. patent office on january, 2, 1979. this application discloses an improvement upon the invention disclosed in my earlier application serial no. 802,007 which was filed in the u.s. patent office on may 31, 1977. that earlier application is a continuationin-part of my parent application 548,896 which was filed on february 11, 1975. exhaust driven turbines have been used with conventional 2-stroke and 4-stroke cycle engines to drive supercharger air compressors which increase engine power output by increasing the mass flow of air into the cylinder. although much more energy remains in the exhaust which, in principle, could be converted' to added shaft output by second stage expansion in a turbine, without added fuel consumption, in practice there has been little or no success in improving the brake fuel consumption efficiency of these engines with conventional cycles by turbocompounding. the primary cause for this failure is thermodynamic and has to do with the inherent nature of 2-stroke and 4-stroke cycles, which must both incorporate a rapid pressure reduction "blowdown" period in the cycle at the end of the expansion stroke period in order to permit a fresh ifltdk cir scavenging period to beyin. the rapid pressure drop of the blowdown period leads to thermodynamic irreversibilities which effectively make it impossible to convert a larye portion of the potentially available exhuast energy to added shaft output by second stage expansion in a turbine. for example, f a pulse type "blowdown" turbine is employed for the purpose, tne turbine will have very low energy conversion efficiency because of the rapid fluctuation of the pressure head across the turbine. a turbine of the constant inlet pressure type (also called a "steady-flow" turbine) has much better energy conversion efficiency. however, if such a steadyflow turbine stage is to be compounded with a conventional 2-stroke or 4-stroke cycle engine, it is necessary for the sake of volumetric efficiency to allow the cylinder exhaust gas to fall to intake pressure before it is expanded in the turbine. that pressure reduction greatly reduces the pressure head available to the turbine stage and in turn greatly reduces the fraction of exhaust energy available for conversion to shaft work by the constant inlet pressure turbine. in an unsupercharged 2-stroke or 4-stroke cycle engine, that fraction is zero. thus, fundamental constraints imposed by the blowdown period greatly limit the improvement that can be attained in the brake thermal efficiency of conventional 2-stroke and 4-stroke cycle engines by turbocharging. the principal object of the invention is to provide a piston engine without a blowdown phase in its cycle,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims   1, an internal combustion   engine    for compounding with an engine of the type using an inlet gas flow at a substantially steady inlet pressure, the internal combustion engine   comprising    a cylinder providing a combustion chamber therein, the chamber having an intake port and an exhaust port, a piston disposed to reciprocate in the chamber to cyclically change the volume of the chamber, an intake valve arranged to open and close the intake port, an exhaust valve arranged to open and close the exhaust port, exhaust duct means for connection to the engine to be compounded, a compressor for compressing the working medium to at least said steady inlet pressure, intake duct means connecting the compressor outlet to the intake port of the combustion chamber,  means for adding fuel to the compressed working medium which is caused to enter the combustion chamber, and means governing the operation of said intake and exhaust valves, the governing means causing those valves to remain open simultaneously for substantially the full upstroke of the piston whereby for at least the major portion of every upstroke compressed air from the inlet duct is able to enter the chamber without being further compressed while the combusted gases in the chamber are simultaneously expelled from the exhaust port into the exhaust duct means.   2. the internal combustion engine according to claim 1, wherein the means for adding fuel to the compressed working medium includes a fuel regulator for regulating the amount of fuel added to cause the fuel burned in each power stroke of the piston to be limited to an amount which causes the combustion pressure rise to be substantially no more than the pressure decrease due to the expansion stroke of the piston whereby the pressure in the combustion chamber at the end of the expansion  stroke in ordinary   operation    is substantially equal to   -r    less than said stead inlet pressure,   3.    the internal   conibustion      engine    according to claim 2, further comprising ignition   gleans    for igniting the fuel charge in the cylinder,  and timing means connected to the ignition means for   causing    ignition when the piston is approximately at the top of its stroke.   4. the internal   combustion    engine according to claim 1 compounded with a turbine of the type utilising a substantially steady inlet gas flow, and wherein the inlet of the turbine is connected to the exhaust duct means.   5. a compound engine according to claim 4, wherein the internal combustion engine has a plurality of similar combustion chambers having their exhaust ports connected to the exhaust duct means and wherein the means governing the operation of the intake and exhaust valves phases the operation of   the    intake and exhaust valves associated with the plurality of combustion chambers to provide a substantially steady flow of gases to the inlet of the turbine.   6. the compound engine according to claim 4, further comprising means connecting the piston of the internal combustion engine to a drive shaft, means coupling the drive shaft to the compressor for causing the compressor to be driven by the drive shaft, and speed changing means coupling the drive shaft to the power output shaft of the turbine.   7. an internal combustion engine for compounding with an engine of the type using an inlet gas flow at a substantially steady inlet pressure, the internal combustion engine comprising a cylinder providing a  combustion chamber therein, the chamber having an intake port and an exhaust port, a piston disposed to reciprocate in the chamber to cyclically change the volume of the chamber, an intake valve arranged to open and close the intake port, an exhaust valve arranged to open and close the exhaust port, exhaust duct means for connection to the engine to be compounded, the exhaust duct means receiving gases expelled from the exhaust port, a compressor for compressing the working medium to at least said steady inlet pressure, intake duct means connecting the compressor outlet to the intake port of the combustion chamber,  means for adding fuel to the compressed working medium which is caused to enter the combustion chamber, means governing the operation of said intake and exhaust valves, the governing means causing those valves to remain closed simultaneously for at least some part of the upstroke of the piston whereby the piston performs an appreciable fraction of the total compression, and the expansion in the cylinder on the downstroke of the piston causing the ensuing pressure decrease in the chamber to be equal to or greater than the preceding pressure rise in the cylinder resulting from   compression    by the piston and combustion in the chamber.   8. the internal combustion engine according to claim 7, further comprising ignition means for igniting the fuel charge in the cylinder, and timing means connected to the ignition means for causing ignition when the piston is approximately at the top of its stroke.   9. an internal combustion engine for compounding with an engine of the type using an inlet gas flow at a substantially steady inlet pressure, the internal combustion engine comprising a cylinder providing a  combustion chamber   thexean(    the   chamber    haying an intake port and an exhaust port, a piston disposed to recipro cate in the chamber to cyclically change the volume of the chamber, an intake valve arranged to open and close the intake port, an exhaust valve arranged to open and close the exhaust port, exhaust duct means for connection to the engine to be compounded, the exhaust duct means receiving gases expelled from the exhaust port, a compressor for compressing the   working    medium to at least said steady inlet pressure,  intake duct means connecting the compressor outlet to the intake port of the combustion chamber, means governing the operation of the intake and exhaust valves, the governing means causing those valves to remain closed for the final portion of every piston upstroke period whereby a limited but appreciable fraction of the total compression work is effected by the piston upstroke, the compression effected in the chamber by the piston upstroke being limited to a ratio which is less than the expansion ratio in the chamber,   and means for regulating the addition of fuel to the working medium whereby the compresses working medium in the combustion chamber is charged with a regulated amount of fuel such that in normal operation of the engine the rise in pressure in the chamber due to combustion of the fuel is limited to an amount which when added to the rise in pressure in the chamber due to the compression of the working medium effected by the piston is not greater than the subsequent pressure decrease in the chamber resulting from the piston's expansion stroke thereby ensuring the elimination of a blowdown phase.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
