<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0011935
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800611
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<main>A61N-1/362</main> A61N-1/372 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
body stimulator programmer.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
medtronic incus  <sep>medtronic, inc.<sep>medtronic, inc.3055 old highway eightminneapolis minnesota 55440us<sep>medtronic, inc.<sep>medtronic, inc.3055 old highway eight p.o. box 1453; minneapolis minnesota 55440<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
anderson katherine h<sep>hartlaub jerome t<sep>powell richard m<sep>smith bobby l<sep>weisbrod stephen p<sep>anderson, katherine h.<sep>hartlaub, jerome t.<sep>powell, richard m.<sep>smith, bobby l.<sep>weisbrod, stephen p.<sep>anderson, katherine h.2007 thomas avenue northminneapolis minnesota 55411us<sep>hartlaub, jerome t.2133 erin courtnew brighton minnesota 55432us<sep>powell, richard m.9717 palmer roadminneapolis minnesota 55437us<sep>smith, bobby l.18281 dahliacedar minnesota 55011us<sep>weisbrod, stephen p.8324 northwood parkwayminneapolis minnesota 55427us<sep>anderson, katherine h.<sep>hartlaub, jerome t.<sep>powell, richard m.<sep>smith, bobby l.<sep>weisbrod, stephen p.<sep>anderson, katherine h.2007 thomas avenue north; minneapolis minnesota 55411<sep>hartlaub, jerome t.2133 erin court; new brighton minnesota 55432<sep>powell, richard m.9717 palmer road; minneapolis minnesota 55437<sep>smith, bobby l.18281 dahlia; cedar minnesota 55011<sep>weisbrod, stephen p.8324 northwood parkway; minneapolis minnesota 55427<sep>anderson, katherine h.2007 thomas avenue northminneapolis minnesota 55411us<sep>hartlaub, jerome t.2133 erin courtnew brighton minnesota 55432us<sep>powell, richard m.9717 palmer roadminneapolis minnesota 55437us<sep>smith, bobby l.18281 dahliacedar minnesota 55011us<sep>weisbrod, stephen p.8324 northwood parkwayminneapolis minnesota 55427us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
apparatus for programming an electrical body  stimulator, e. g.  a cardiac pacemaker, includes a keyboard 22.   24, 26 for entering parameters and/or modes of operation of  the stimulator and a transmitter 34 for transmitting the infor足 mation to the stimulator.  the programmer includes conduc足 tors 52a, 52b, 52c for connection to the patient's body for  detecting electrical heart activity in ekg board 38.  a program  is stored in rom memory 40 and a control processor 34  controls a display to provide messages directing the operator  to enter in a desired sequence the parameters and/or modes  of operation and also provides error detecting means respon足 sive to the depressing of an incrorrect key of the keyboard for  causing the program to return to its initial step.  a secondary  coil coupled to the transmitting antenna provides a signal to  check the transmission and after transmitting a signal to the  stimulator the programmer checks the ekg for a test signal  indicating that the stimulator has been correctly program足 med.  the programmer can also automatically decrement the  pulse energy signals to determine the threhold at which heart  capture is lost.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
body stimulator programmer this invention relates to programming atpara tus for electronic devices adapted to be operates in a variety of modes for stimulating body tissue or to monitor various conditions of the device itself or of be tissue, e.g., the patient's heart. heart pacers such as that described in u#s patent no. 3,057,356 issued in the name of wilson greatbatch and assigned to the assignee of this invention, are known for providing electrical stimulus to the heart whereby it is contracted at a desired rate in the order of 72 beats per minute. such a heart pacemaker is capable of being iw- planted within the human body and operative in such an er- vironment for long periods of time. typically, such pacemakers are implanted in the pectorial region or in the ab- dominal region of the patient by a surgical procedure, whereby an incision is made in such region and the pacerwa;;;e- with its own internal power supply is inserted within the patient's body. this pacer operates asynchronously to provide fixed-rate. stimulation not automatically changed in accordance with the body's needs, and has proven effective in alleviating the symptoms of complete heart block. an asynchronous pacer, however, has the possible disadvantage of competing with the natural, physiological pacemaker during episodes of normal sinus condition. an artificial pacer of the demand type has been developed wherein the artificial stimuli are initiated only when required and subsequently can be eliminated when the heart returns to the sinus rhythm. such a demand pacer is shown in u.s. patent no. 3,4##,746 issued november 18, 1969 and entitled "cardiac implantable ded pacem.aker". the demand pacer solves the problew arising in asynchronous pacers by inhibiting itself in the presence of ventricular activity (the ventriclels r wave), but by coming "on line" and filling in missed heartbeats in the absence of ventricular activity. a problem with such prior art, implantable demand pacers is that there was no way to temporarily increase or decrease the rate or other operating parameter at which these stimulating pulses are generated without surgical intervention. still another problem is the great difficulty in ascertaining the battery life remaining, in detecting and correcting a failing electrode, and in establishing an adequate r-wave sensitivity safety margin in an implanted demand pacer. some implantable cardiac pacers presently constructed have a rate override capability but do not adequately check the viability of the demand function. other devices are provided with a magnetic reed switch arrangement which can deactivate the demand amplifier for the purpose of checking the demand function but are lacking in a rate override capability. another improvement which has occurred since greatbatch first disclosed the implantable cardiac pacemaker is means to allow the pacemaker to be reprogrammed after has been implanted. in united states patent 3,805,796 n the name of reese terry, jr. et al, entitled "iplantabl cardiac pacer having adjustable operating parameters", wric issued in 1974, circuitry is disclosed to allow the rate of the pacemaker to be noninvasively changed after it has
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims  1. apparatus for programming a selected one   o       a    variety of parameters and/or modes of operation into a body stimulator for the control thereof in accordance with the programmed parameter and/or mode of operation, said apparatus comprising keyboard means for operator manipulation to enter the selected parameter and/or mode of   operated,    transmitter means coupled to said keyboard means for encoding the entered parameter and/or mode of operation and for generating a corresponding modulated, encoded signal, antenna means coupled to said transmitter for transmitting said modulated, encoded signal to said body stimulator, a secondary coil disposed to be inductively coupled with said   antenn &     for sensing the transmission of a signal thereby,  for generating a corresponding output signal, and detector means coupled to receive said output signal and arranged to   meter    mine the satisfactory transmission of the encoded signal.    2. apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said detector means is arranged to determine whether said   out    signal is above a predetermined minimum level.    3. apparatus as claimed in claim 1 or 2, including display means responsive to said detector means for providing a manifestation that the encoded, modulated signal has been satisfactorily transmitted via said antenna means.    4. apparatus as claimed in claim 1, 2 or 3, including memory means for the storage of the output of said detector means for use in a testing process.    5. apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim for use in programming a body stimulator of the kind having means for generating test pulses in addition to the stimulating pulses, indicative of the successful programming of said stimulator, said apparatus further comprising means for coupling to the patient's body for sensing electrical   sio;-    nals including the stimulating pulses and test pulses and means responsive to the transmission of the encoded   signals     for initiating the detection   of    the characteristics of the test pulse and for   deterr.-#ning    whether the detected characteristics meet   predetermined    criteria and if so, for providing a manifestation that said stimulator has been successfully programmed.    6. apparatus as claimed in claim 5, wherein said detector means detects and measures the pulse width of the test pulses and the interval of time between the stimulating pulses and the test pulses, and is arranged to compare the measured pulse width and interval of the detected test pulses with predetermined values to determine whether the stimulator has been successfully programmed.    7. apparatus as claimed in claim 6, wherein said predetermined values are substantially pulse width limits of 1.1 milliseconds and 350 microseconds, and interval limits of 50 and 150   microseooncts     8. apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim for programming a cardiac pacing generator to effect a threshold mode of operation in which the minimum energy level required for the generated stimulating pulses to stimulate the patient's heart is determined, wherein said transmitter means is arranged to transmit encoded signals from said apparatus indicative of the desired energy level of the pacing pulses to be applied by said pacing generator to the patients heart,  said apparatus further comprising conductor means for coupling said programmer to the patient for receiving and detecting the patient's heart activity signals including the stimulating pulses applied to the patient's heart by said pacing generator, display means for displaying the energy level of the stimulating pulses as applied to the patient's heart, and computing means for decrementing the current value of the energy level by a predetermined amount and causing said transmitter means to transmit a new encoded signal commanding said pacing generator to apply stimulating pulses of the decremented energy level.      9. apparatus as claimed in claim 8   includlro    means for counting the number of stimulating pulses   attlted    by said pacing generator to the patient's heart and   arrayed    after a predetermined count to cause said computing means to decrement the current energy level by the incremental amount.    10. apparatus as claimed in claim 8 or 9 including memory means responsive to the actuation of said keyboard means to initiate said pacing generator into the threshold mode and arranged to store the original energy level of the stimulating pulses to be so programmed.    11. apparatus as claimed in claim 10,   wherein      si    memory means further stores the current value of the   energy    level, and said display means is capable of displaying both the original value and the current value of the energy level of the pacing pulses.    12. apparatus as claimed in any of claims 8 to   11    wherein there is included means for determining whether the programmed level of energy is below a predetermined minimum and if so, for causing said transmitter means to transmit an encoded signal to said pacing generator so that it generates pulses with the original energy level.    13. apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim including display means, control means including memory means for storing a desired sequence of steps in which    g    particular parameter or mode of operation is to be programmed by said programmer and for causing said display means to display messages directing the operator to enter in said desired sequence the parameter and/or mode of operation via said keyboard means, and error detecting means responsive to the depressing of an incorrect key of said keyboard means for causing said control means to return it to its initial step of said control processes.    14. apparatus as claimed in claim 13,   wherein    sat control means comprises timing means initiated by the   de-    pressing of a correct key of said keyboard means for timing  a predetermined interval in which the operator has to strike the next correct key.    15. apparatus as claimed in claim 14, wherein said error detecting means is responsive to the time out of said timing means to return said control means to its initial step.     16. apparatus as claimed in claim 13, 14 or 15, wherein said memory means stores a table of limits of the parameters that may be   programmed    by said   programmer,    and said error detecting means is responsive to the attempted   procrarrirning    via said keyboard means of a parameter exceeding said limits, for causing said display means to provide an error manifestation.      17.    apparatus as claimed in any of claims 13 to i6, wherein said keyboard means includes a clear key to be depressed by said operator, said error detecting means being responsive to depression of said clear key to return said control means to its initial step.  
</CLAIMS>
<CLAIMS>
1. apparatus for programming a cardiac pacing  generator to effect a threshold mode of opration  in which the minimum energy level required for  the generated stimulating pulses to stimulate the  patient's heart is determined, comprising keyboard  means (22, 24, 26) for operating said  programming apparatus in its threshold mode of  operation; transmitter means (34) arranged to  transmit encoded signals from said apparatus  indicative of the desired energy level of the  pacing pulse to be applied by said pacing  generator to the patient's heart, conductor means  (52a, b, c) for coupling said programmer to the  patient for receiving and detecting the patient's  heart activity signals including the stimulating  pulses applied to the patient's heart by said  pacing generator, display means (28) for displaying  the energy level of the stimulating pulses as  applied to the patient's heart, and computing  means (32) responsive to the initiation of operation  in the threshold mode by said keyboard  means for decrementing the current value of the  energy level by a predetermined amount and  causing said transmitter means to transmit a new  encoded signal commanding said pacing  generator to apply stimulating pulses of the  decremented energy level, and further  including  means for counting the number of stimulating  pulses applied by said pacing generator to the  patient's heart and arranged after a predetermined  count to cause said computing means to  decrement the current energy level by the predetermined  amount. 2. apparatus as claimed in claim 1, including     memory means responsive to the actuation of  said keyboard means to initiate said pacing  generator into the threshold mode and arranged  to store the original energy level of the stimulating  pulses to be so programmed. 3. apparatus as claimed in claim 2, wherein said  memory means further stores the current value of  the energy level, and said display means is  capable of displaying both the original value and  the current value of the energy level of the pacing  pulses. 4. apparatus as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3,  wherein there is included means for determining  whether the programmed level of energy is below  a predermined minimum, and if so, for causing  said transmitter means to transmit an encoded  signal to said pacing generator so that it  generates pulses with the original energy level. 5. apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim  for programming a selected one of a variety of  parameters and/or modes of operation into the  pacing generator for the control thereof in  accordance with the programmed parameter and/or  mode of operation, said apparatus comprising  said keyboard means for operator manipulation  to enter the selected parameters and/or mode of  operation, said transmitter means coupled to said  keyboard means for encoding the entered parameter  and/or mode of operation and for generating  a corresponding modulated, encoded signal,  antenna means coupled to said transmitter for  transmitting said modulated, encoded signal to  said pacing generator, a secondary coil disposed  to be inductively coupled with said antenna for  sensing the transmission of a signal thereby, for  generating a corresponding output signal, and  detector means coupled to receive said output  signal and arranged to determine the satisfactory  transmission of the encoded signal. 6. apparatus as claimed in claim 5, wherein said  detector means is arranged to determine whether  said output signal is above a predetermined  minimum level. 7. apparatus as claimed in claim 5 or 6, wherein  said display means is responsive to said detector  means for providing a manifestation that the  encoded, modulated signal has been satisfactorily  transmitted via said antenna means. 8. apparatus as claimed in claim 5, 6 ir 7  including memory means for the storage of the  output of said detector means for use in a testing  process. 9. apparatus as claimed in any preceding  claim for use in programming a pacing generator  of the kind having means for generating test  pulses in addition to the stimulating pulses,  indicative of said successful programming of said  pacing generator, said apparatus further comprising  means for coupling to the patient's body for  sensing electrical signals including the stimulating  pulses and test pulses and means responsive  to the transmission of the encoded signals for  initiating the detection of the characteristics of the  test pulse and for determining whether the  detected characteristics meet predetermined  criteria and if so, for providing a manifestation  that said generator has been successfully  programmed. 10. apparatus as claimed in claim 9 wherein  said detector means detects and measures the  pulse width of the test pulses and the interval of  time between the stimulating pulses and the test  pulses, and is aranged to compare the measured  pulse width and interval of the detected test  pulses with predetermined values to determine  whether the generator has been successfully  programmed. 11. apparatus as claimed in claim 10, wherein  said predetermined walues are substantially pulse  width limits of 1.1 milliseconds and 350 microseconds,  and interval limits of 50 and 150 microseconds. 12. apparatus as claimes in any of claims 5 to  11 comprising control means including memory  means for storing a desired sequence of steps in  which a particular parameter or mode of operation  is to be programmed by said programmer  and for causing said display means to display  messages directing the operator to enter in said  desired sequence the parameter and/or mode of  operation via said keyboard means, and error  detecting means responsive to the depressing of  an incorrect key of said keyboard means for  causing said control means to return it to its initial  step of said control processes. 13. apparatus as claimed in claim 12, wherein  said control means comprises timing means  initiated by the depressing of a correct key of said  keyboard means for timing a predetermined  interval in which the operator has to striked the  next correct key. 14. apparatus as claimed in claim 13, wherein  said error detecting means is responsive to the  time out of said timing means to return said  control means to its initial step. 15. apparatus as claimed in claim 12, 13 or 14,  wherein said memory means stores a table of  limits of the parameters that may by programmed  by said programmer, and said error detecting  means is responsive to the attempted programming  via said keyboard means of a parameter  exceeding said limits, for causing said display  means to provide an error manifestation. 16. apparatus as claimed in any of claims 12 or  15, wherein said keyboard means includes a clear  key to be depressed by said operator, said error  detecting means being responsive to depression  of said clear key to return said control means to its  initial step. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
