<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0006748
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800109
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
G06T-1/20 G06K-9/56 H04N-5/02 G06K-9/54 <main>H04N-1/00</main> H04N-1/40 G06F-15/20 G06F-15/76 G06F-15/80 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
apparatus and method for generating a transformation of a first data matrix to form a second data matrix.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
environmental res instus<sep>environmental research institute of michigan<sep>environmental research institute of michiganp.o. box 8618ann arbor, michigan 48107us<sep>environmental research institute of michigan  <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
sternberg stanley ronald<sep>sternberg, stanley ronald<sep>sternberg, stanley ronald5591 textile roadypsilanti michigan 48197us<sep>sternberg, stanley ronald<sep>sternberg, stanley ronald5591 textile roadypsilanti michigan 48197us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
the apparatus includes a plurality of serial neighbor足 hood processors that simultaneously operate upon adjoin足 ing partitioned portions of the first data matrix.  the serial  processors are interconnected to provide each processor  with data contained in the contiguous matrix portion being  processed by an adjacent processor when processing a  data element whose neighborhood elements are partially  contained in that contiguous matrix portion.  the apparatus is particularly useful for image process足 ing and achieves processing speeds greater than conven足 tional serial processors with an economy or memory.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
apparatus and method for generating a transforijiation of a first data matrix to form a secoic data matrix this invention relates to processors for performing neighborhood transformation on matrices of data elements containing a plurality of sections that operate upon separate sections of a single data matrix simultaneously. neighborhood processors are a class of devices that operate upon a first data array or matrix to generate a second matrix wherein each element has a value dependent upon the value of its equivalent element in the first matrix, and the values of its neighboring elements in the first matrix. these devices are useful for pattern recognition, image enhancement, area correlation and like image processing functions. one form of prior art neighborhood processing device is constructed in a parallel array form with a single computing element for each matrix element or pixel. a parallel array neighborhood processor of this type is disclosed in uos. patent no. 3,106,698 to unger. it comprises a matrix of identical processing cells, each cell including a memory register for storing the value of a single data element (pixel), and a neighborhood logic translator for computing the transformed value of that pixel as a function of the present value of the pixel and the neighborhood pixel values, and parallel connections between the translator and neighboring memory registers. the neighborhood logic may be fixed, in which case the same transformation is repeated indefinitely, or, may be programmable, in which case the neighborhood transition function may be modified at required times in the transition sequence of the image processing scheme. a common clock causes a simultaneous transition in the state of all the pixel values registers to achieve a transformation of the entire matrix. the principal advantage of such a parallel array processor is speed, a neighborhood transformation of the entire image or matrix requires only a single clock pulse interval so that transformations may be performed at rates of millions per second. the -principal disadvantage of the parallel array processor configuration is complexity since the neighborhood logic must be replicated in every processor cell, making a processor for large arrays, such as 1000 x 1000, which may be a reasonable size for a digitized image, very large and costly0 a serial array processor represents an alternative approach to neighborhood processing which greatly simplifies the processor structure at-the expense of speed when compared to the parallel array. such a system is disclosed in uoso patent no, 3,339,179 and in uoso patent application no. 742,127. that system employs a chain of serial neighborhood processing stages, each stage capable of generating the transformed value of a single pixel within a single clock pulse interval the serial neighborhood processing stage employs a neighborhood logic translator identical to its counterpart in the parallel array processor cell, and line delay memory for receiving a serial pixel streamwfromanw byrow raster scan of the input matrix and for configuring the neighborhood window by providing the appropriate matrix elements to the neighborhood logic translator. the serialized input matrix
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:   1. apparatus for generating a transformation of a first data matrix to form a second data matrix wherein the value of each data element is a function of the values of the elements in the neighborhood of the equivalent data element in the first   matrix,.compri-    sing a plurality of serial neighborhood processors, means for providing said first data matrix to said plurality of serial neighborhood processors with each serial processor receiving in a serial manner a portion of said matrix, adjacent processors receiving contiguous portions of said matrix, and means for controlling the serial processors to cause each processor to utilize neighborhood information contained in an adjacent processor when generating the transform of a data element having neighboring elements in the portion processed by such adjacent processor.   2. apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said means for providing said first data matrix to said neighborhood processors provides a plurality of adjacent columns to each processor in a row by row raster.   3. apparatus as claimed in claim   2, -wherein    said means for providing said first data matrix to said neighborhood processors provides adjacent processors with data elements displaced by one row relative to one another.   4. apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein said means for controlling the serial processors to cause each processor to utilize   neighborhood    information contained in an adjacent processor includes gate means forming part of each processor operative to receive two inputs, one from each adjacent processor, and control means for providing one of said inputs as the output of the gate means.     5. apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein each serial neighborhood processor is formed as a single integrated circuit and each of the circuits is identical to one another.   6. apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein a pair of serial neighborhood processors are provided.   7. apparatus as claimed in claim 6, wherein each serial processor includes a window register section, associated serial configuring means and a neighborhood logic translator, the window register section of the first processor being connected to the translator of the second processor and the window register section of the second processor being connected to the translator of the first processor.   8. apparatus as claimed in claim 6 or 7, further comprising third and fourth serial neighborhood processors of identical configuration to said first and second neighborhood processors respectively connected to the outputs of said first and second neighborhood processors so as to perform a second transformation on the matrix represented by the. output of the first and second processors.   9. a method of generating a transformation of a first data matrix to form a second data matrix wherein the value of each data element is a function of the values of the elements in the neighborhood of the equivalent data element in the first matrix, comprising the steps of simultaneously providing distinct portions of said first data matrix to a plurality of serial neighborhood processors in a serial manner such that adjacent contiguous portions of the matrix, and causing each processor to utilize neighborhood information contained in an adjacent processor when generating the transform of  a data element having neighboring elements in the portion processed by such adjacent processor.    10. a method as claimed in claim 9, wherein a first portion of the first data matrix is fed to a first serial processor and a second portion of the matrix is fed to a second serial processor said first portion comprising a plurality of contiguous columns of the first data matrix and said second portion comprising a second plurality of contiguous colums, being provided to the first serial processor in a row by row raster and said second portion being simultaneously provided to the second serial processor in a row by row raster.   11. a method as claimed in claim 10, wherein the raster of data provided to the second serial processor is displaced by one row relative to the raster simultaneously being fed to the first processor.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
