<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0011063
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800528
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
H04M-1/73 H02J-9/06 H04M-1/72 G05F-3/02 H04Q-1/44 <main>H04Q-7/00</main> 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
portable radiotelephone system.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
int mobile machines<sep>international mobile machines corporation<sep>international mobile machines corporation401 lewis tower building 15th and locust streetsphiladelphia pennsylvaniaus<sep>international mobile machines corporation<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
benjamin joel malvern jr<sep>bolgiano duane ridgely  <sep>meyer victor jr<sep>benjamin, joel malvern, jr.<sep>bolgiano, duane ridgely<sep>meyer, victor, jr.<sep>benjamin, joel malvern, jr.fellowship farm rd3pottstown pennsylvaniaus<sep>bolgiano, duane ridgely2 cornell roadbala cynwyd pennsylvaniaus<sep>meyer, victor, jr.9 south hamilton streettelford pennsylvaniaus<sep>benjamin, joel malvern, jr.<sep>bolgiano, duane ridgely<sep>meyer, victor, jr.<sep>benjamin, joel malvern, jr.fellowship farm rd3 pottstown pennsylvania us  <sep>bolgiano, duane ridgely2 cornell roadbala cynwyd pennsylvaniaus<sep>meyer, victor, jr.9 south hamilton streettelford pennsylvaniaus<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a portable telephone system which utilizes both a vox  and a duplexer network wherein the necessity for the trans­ mission of a continuous signal and continuous receiver scan­ ning is eliminated, thereby conserving power, and wherein  the ringing signal is generated locally by the individual sub­ scriber units to prevent contact with the base station until full  two-way communication is established, thereby preventing  possible interference with other parties already on the line.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
portable telephone system this invention relates to a portable telephone system, and it particularly relates to a portable telephone system wherein the operation of the system is totally automatic, permitting its use in the same manner as an ordinary land line phone. a number of telephone systems have heretofore been designed which are characterized by the fact that the subscriber units are not normally tied to a fixed location. generally, such units have been mounted on moving vehicles such as automobiles, boats, airplanes, or the like. it has recently been recognized that the provision of such a portable unit which is capable of being carried on the person would be highly advantageous, but such types of systems have been usually effective only for communications through a telephone operator at a base station or, even when of the socalled "automatic" type, have been subject to undue control by the base station as to periods of use, relying on the base station to set up the channels of communication before the subscriber unit can begin its communication. furthermore, the prior systems generally use a maximum signal system with a special audio tone, whereby they operate on specific exclusive frequencies which severely limits the lines open to the subscriber, in contrast to the utilization of a minimum signal system, operating on shared frequencies, which permits a much wider selection of lines open to the subscriber. in other words, in these prior systems, the subscriber unit must search for a specific channel with a tone thereon, whereas a better system utilizes any channel that is open. other prior systems utilize pulses for designating subscriber units rather than tones. in addition, although some prior systems utilize a vox system and some utilize a duplex system, none appear to utilize the combination of both a vox and duplexer system. the vox system is important in portable systems because, if the transmitter is only on when audio is being fed into the audio input, battery power is greatly conserved and, since the portable unit utilizes a battery, it requires less battery changing when power is conserved. the duplexer system is also important since it permits simultaneous transmission and reception in the same manner as an ordinary telephone. many prior systems also utilize a subaudible tone that is transmitted by the subscriber unit continuously, whereby the base station only determines when the subscriber unit is finished with the conversation when the tone disappears. a more efficient system is one utilizing a tone burst at the beginning and another tone burst at the end of the.con- versation, thereby eliminating the necessity for a continuous signal. this permits use of the above-mentioned vox since the vox cannot be used where it is necessary to keep the transmitter on all the time in order to transmit the constant tone. many prior systems also require constant receiver scanning. this requires a large power expenditure. if the system is adapted to use interrupted receiver scanning wherein the receiver is only on for a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:   1. a portable telephone system characterized by at least one subscriber station having a transmitter, a receiver, a control section, and a plurality of communication channels, said control section including scanning means and means to monitor for identification signals specific to said subscriber station, said scanning means when activated, causing said receiver to be tuned sequentially to each channel for a specific interval of time, said control section further having a monitor state for causing all said channels to be monitored periodically for said identification signals, an originate state for causing all said channels to be monitored periodically until a channel having no carrier thereon is found, and an active state for causing said transmitter and said receiver to remain turned to one channel,  powerconserving means operative when said control section is in the monitor state to cause total suspension of power to said receiver except during periodic intervals of time when said scanning means scans all the channels an integral number of times, and a base station having a plurality of base station communication channels corresponding to the channels of said subscriber station and having a transmitter and receiver to establish communication-with said subscriber station through the corresponding channel at said subscriber station, said base station, when originating a call, transmitting said identification signals on a fixed channel for a period of time sufficient to insure that the subscriber station will monitor said fixed channel at least once when said subscriber station is in the monitor state.   2. the system of claim 1, characterized in that said subscriber station is provided with means to transmit identification signals to said base station when any free channel is detected and seized, and means to activate said subscriber station when said identification signals are retransmitted by said base station.     3. the system of claim 2, characterized in that detection means are provided at said base station for monitoring the subscriber station and for activating the base station   ,transmitter    to retransmit said identification signals when said identification signals are received and detected by said base station detection means.   4. the system of claim 2 or claim 3, characterized in that said means to transmit identification signals comprises a monostable means having a predetermined period of activation and a tone generator adapted to generate a set of tones upon receiving a predetermined signal from said monostable means.   5. the system of claim 2, 3 or 4, characterized in that means are provided at said base station to connect the transmitter and receiver of said subscriber station through the base station to a telephone line when said subscriber station is activated.   6. the system of any one of claims 1 to 5, characterized in that said subscriber station is provided with means to transmit tone bursts at the beginning and end of audio communication.   7. the system of any one of claims 1 to 6, characterized in that said system includes a duplexer for permitting simultaneous transmission of signals to and from the subscriber station and base station.   8. the system of any one of claims 1 to 7, characterized in that said system includes a vox circuit to activate the subscriber station transmitter by audio signals.   9. the system of any one of claims 1 to 8, characterized in that said subscriber station is provided with means to generate a ringing signal prior to completion of communication between the subscriber station and the base station.     10. the system of any one of claims 1 to 9, characterized in that said subscriber station is provided with means for receiving and being activated by any of a plurality of simultaneous ringing tones from said base station.   11. the system of any one of claims 1 to 10, characterized in that said subscriber station is provided with a detector circuit for distinguishing between the presence of a steady voltage and a varying voltage.   12. the system of any one of claims 1 to 11, characterized in that said subscriber station is provided with a detector circuit for detecting the presence or absence of particular frequencies.   13. the system of any one of claims 1 to 12, characterized in that said subscriber station is provided with a tone detector circuit to control said scanning means, said circuit comprising: a transistor having a collector load resistance; a biasing network that is dc referenced to said transistor's collector's supply voltage potential and ac referenced to said transistor's emitter; a peak-detector coupled to said biasing network and comprising a diode, a capacitor, a resistor and a high-impedance voltage comparitor; and an input coupling capacitor coupled to said biasing network.   14. the system of any one of claims 1 to 12, characterized in that said subscriber station is provided with a tone detector circuit to control said scanning means, said circuit comprising: a transistor having a collector load resistance; a biasing network that is dc referenced to said transistor's collector's supply voltage potential and ac referenced to said transistor's emitter; a peak-detector coupled to said biasing network and comprising a diode, a capacitor, a resistor and a high-impedance voltage comparitor; and a filter coupled to said biasing network.     15. the system of any one of claims 1 to 14, characterized in that said subscriber station is provided with means to generate supervisory signals by combining frequencies which have been counted down from a stable oscillator and then combining the resulting frequencies by modulators to produce composite tones.   16. the system of claim 15, characterized in that said modulators comprise gating means.   17. the system of claim 16, characterized in that said gating means are exclusive or gates.   18. the system of any one of claims 1 to 17, characterized in that said subscriber station is operatively connected to a power supply means, said power supply means comprising an internal battery and an external battery, said internal battery being in continuous operative association with said subscriber station, said external battery being selectively coupled to and decoupled from operative association with said subscriber station, and said external battery is operatively coupled to said subscriber station.    19. the system of claim 18, characterized in that said internal battery is a relatively low voltage source and said external battery is a relatively high voltage source.   20. the system of claim 18 or claim 19, characterized in that said subscriber station includes a memory means, and wherein said internal battery continues to supply power only to said memory means when said external battery is decoupled.   21. the system of any one of claims 1 to 20, characterized in that said subscriber station includes a memory means and a clock network in addition to said transmitter and receiver, said clock network comprising an oscillator means and a counter means for counting the frequencies produced by said   oscillator means and applying the resulting signals to said memory means to said transmitter and to said receiver.   22. the system of any one of claims 1 to 21, characterized in that said subscriber station includes a monostable means for controlling the scanning of said channels by activating and deactivating the scanning in accordance with an on-hook or off-hook position of the receiver and transmitter at said subscriber station.   23. a tone detector characterized by a transistor having a collector load resistor; a biasing means that is dc referenced to said transistor's collector's supply voltage potential and ac referenced to said transistor's emitter; a peak-detector comprising a diode, a capacitor, a resistor and a high-impedance, low-leakage threshold means; and, selectively, a voltage and frequency detector means.   24. the tone detector of claim 23, characterized in that said detector means is an input coupling capacitor which distinguishes between the presence of a steady voltage and a varying voltage.   25. the tone detector of claim 23, characterized in that said detector means is a filter which detects the presence or absence of specific frequencies.   26. a control system for scanning multiple communication channels in a radio telephone network that includes a subscriber station having a receiver and transmitter and a base station having a receiver and transmitter, characterized in that the receivers and transmitters at the subscriber station and at the base station are associated with corresponding channels, said subscriber station having a scanning means and monostable means for activating and deactivating said scanning means.     27. the system of claim 26, characterized in that said monostable means is activated by signals from said base station to deactivate said scanning means and is activated by an on-hook position of the receiver and transmitter at said subscriber station to deactivate said scanning means.   28. the system of claim 26 or claim 27, characterized in that said monostable means generates transmission of identification signals from said subscriber station to said base station which, thereupon, retransmits the signals to said subscriber station to activate the system and activates the receiver and transmitter at said subscriber station upon retransmission of said identification signals from said base station.   29. a power supply system comprising a relatively low voltage means and a relatively high voltage means, characterized by said relatively high voltage means being selectively coupled and decoupled from an electrical system to be powered, said relatively low voltage means being continuously operatively connected to said electrical system and being continuously electrically charged by said relatively high voltage means when said relatively high voltage means is coupled to said electrical system.   30. the power supply system of claim 29, characterized in that said relatively high and relatively low voltage means are electrical batteries.    31. the power supply system of claim 29 or claim 30, characterized in that said electrical system is a radio telephone network.   32. the power supply system of claim 31, characterized in that said radio telephone network comprises a subscriber station and a base station in selective communication with each other, said power supply system being operatively  connected to said subscriber station for supplying power thereto.   33. a monostable system utilizable in a radio network characterized by a trigger source, a flip-flop, a counter and a frequency source inter-connected to each other.   34. the monostable system of claim 33, characterized in that a gate is interposed between the trigger source, the flip-flop, and the counter.   35. the monostable system of claim 34, characterized in that the gate is an exclusive nor gate.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
