<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0014787
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800903
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
F26B-13/00 D06C-5/00 F26B-13/30 <main>F26B-13/30</main> 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
method of, and apparatus for, reducing the liquid content of air-permeable material in tubular form.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
courtaulds plcgb<sep>courtaulds plc<sep>courtaulds plc18, hanover squarelondon w1a 2bbgb <sep>courtaulds plc<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
laszlo akos <sep>merriman horace bartlett <sep>laszlo, akos<sep>merriman, horace bartlett<sep>laszlo, akos"jelenice" clumber road east the parknottinghamgb<sep>merriman, horace bartlett"kingfishers" coronation roadsouth ascot berkshire sl5 9lqgb<sep>laszlo, akos<sep>merriman, horace bartlett  <sep>laszlo, akos "jelenice" clumber road east the parknottinghamgb<sep>merriman, horace bartlett"kingfishers" coronation roadsouth ascot berkshire sl5 9lqgb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a method of reducing the liquid content of air-permeable  material in tubular form, especially for reducing the moisture  content of tubular fabric, involves moving the tube of material  longitudinally through a device for applying suction to the  outer surface of the tube either in a single area which extends  all round the tube or in a plurality of areas which together  extend substantially all round the tube.  means for carrying the method into effect may comprise a  pair of hollow members 17, 18 defining a frame to surround  the tube 10 of material from which liquid is to be removed.   each of the hollow members 17, 18 has apertures 7 in its  inwardly-facing wall or walls each of which communicates  with the hollow interior of the respective hollow member.   means is provided for creating a sub-atmospheric pressure in  each of the members 17, 18, for example tubes 19 connected  to the members and connectible to a source of vacuum (not  shown).  preferably, the apertures 7 are in the form of elongate  slots having a length considerably greater than their width,  and the axis of each slot is inclined at an angle of from 5 to 10  degrees to the direction of advance, indicated by the arrow b,  of the tubular fabric.  the position of the hollow member 18  between the limbs 17a, 17b, of the member 17 is adjustable in  order to vary the cross-sectional area of the window opening  of the frame defined by the hollow members.  the suction extraction means may be combined with hot  air drying apparatus disposed downstream of the suction  applying means and/or with squeeze rollers disposed  upstream of the suction applying means.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
method of, and means for, reducing the liquid content of air-nermeable material in tubular form. this invention relates to a method of, and means for, reducing the liquid content of air-permeable material in tubular form. in particular, but not exclusively, it relates to a method of, and apparatus for, reducing the liquid content, and especially the moisture content, of tubular fabric. it is frequently necessary in the textile industry to remove liquid from tubular fabric, for example fabric which has been treated in a dyebath or subjected to bleaching or finishing treatments in liquid baths. it is known to remove liquid from tubular fabric by passing the fabric through an apparatus comprising squeeze rollers, for example a mangle, in order to express a considerable part of the liquid therefrom. however, after such a liquid removal process, the fabric may still contain liquid in an amount of up to 60 riser cent by weight of the dry weight of the fabric. in known-liquid removal apparatus of this kind it is possible to pass the tubular fabric through the apparatus at speeds of up to 25 m/min. various methods are known for effecting a more complete drying of tubular fabric. one such method involves the use of hot air drying. the partially dried fabric, brought for instance from a mangle, is led over a stretcher for width regulation and then passes into a drying chamber where hot air is blown around and penetrates into the fabric. during the drying process, the tubular fabric fills with a mixture of hot air and vapour which flows in the direction opposite to that of the;progression of the fabric, so that the fabric approaches the stretcher as a fully blown up tube. practical operating speeds vary according to the type of fabric and other conditions, but under the most favourable conditions the speed of progression of the fabric through the drying chamber is not likely to exceed 15 m/min. if, therefore, such a drying chamber is employed to reduce still further the liquid content of tubular fabric which has been passed through squeeze rollers, the latter will not be used to their full capacity in a continuous process. alternatively, the partially dried fabric coming from a number of squeeze rollers can be delivered to a greater number of drying chambers, but this means that the entire drying process becomes a batch process instead of a continuous process. for reducing the liquid content of open widths of fabric, it is known to apply suction to a surface of the fabric. one known apparatus employing this principle comprises a suction tube having a diameter of for instance 100 mm which is connected to a source of vacuum and has a longitudinal slit of a width for instance of 3 mm. the fabric is guided partially around the suction tube, over the slit, with the tube disposed perpendicular to the direction of advance of the fabric. the time during which the fabric is exposed to the influence of suction
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims    1. a method of reducing the liquid content of airpermeable material in tubular form, especially for reducing the moisture content of tubular fabric, characterised by the step of moving the tube of material longitudinally through means for applying suction to the external surface of the tube in a single area which extends, or in a plurality of areas which together extend, substantially completely around the tube.    2. a method according to claim 1, characterised in that the suction applying means is arranged to apply suction to the external surface of the tube   of -material    in a single circumferential zone.    3. a method according to claim 1, characterised in that the suction applying means is arranged to apply suction to a plurality of zones of the external surface of the tube of material, at least one of which zones is displaced from the other zone or zones in the direction of advance of the tube through the suction applying means.    4. means for reducing the liquid content of airpermeable material in tubular form, especially for reducing the moisture content of tubular fabric, characterised in that it comprises one or more hollow members defining a frame to surround the tube of material, apertures in the inwardly-facing wall of the or each hollow member   commun-    icating with its hollow interior, means for creating a sub-atmospheric pressure within the or each hollow member and means for advancing the tube of material through the  frame to move the external surface of the tube past the inwardly-facing, apertured wall of the or each hollow member.    5. means according to claim 4, characterised in that the or each hollow member consists of a tube, for example of rectangular cross-section, and in that the tube   is,    or the tubes are, arranged to define a frame of circular, rectangular, triangular or other shape.    6. means according to claim 4 or 5, characterised in that each of the apertures in the or each hollow member is in the form of a substantially straight, elongate slot having a length considerably greater than its width and disposed in the inwardly-facing wall of the hollow member with its axis inclined slightly to the direction of advance of the tubular material through the frame.    7. means according to claim 6, characterised in that the axis of the slot is inclined at an angle of from 5 to 10 degrees to the direction of advance of the tube of material through the frame.    8. means according to claim 6 or 7, characterised in that each slot has a width of from 3 to 5 mm and a length of up to 100 mm.    9. means according to any of claims 4 to 8, characterised in that the cross-sectional area of the window opening of the frame is adjustable to suit tubular material of different diameters.    10. means according to claim 9 and comprising a plurality of said hollow members, characterised in that in that the hollow members are movable relative to one another to vary the cross-sectional area of said window opening.    11. means according to claim 9 and comprising either a single hollow member or a plurality of hollow members fixed relative to one another, characterised in that provision is made for tilting the frame relative to the direction of advance of the tube of material through the frame, so that the area available for the passage of the  tube of material, projected onto a plane disposed at right anles to the direction of advance of the tube, can be varied.    12. means according to any of claims 4 to 11, in combination with apparatus for blowing hot air into the tube of material downstream of said suction applying means, characterised by means for inducing the hot air to flow along the tube of material in the direction opposite to the direction of advance of the tube of material through the suction applying means.    13. means according to claim 12, characterised in that downstream of the region where the hot air is introduced into the tube of material, the tube of material passes through driven nip rollers which draw the tube through said frame and through the apparatus for blowing hot air into the tube.    14. means according to claim 12 or 13, characterised in that the tube of material is arranged to pass over a stretcher located between said frame and the apparatus for blowing hot air into the tube.    15. means according to any of claims 12 to 14, characterised in that between said frame and the apparatus for blowing hot air into the tube of material, the latter advances through a heat-insulating jacket.    16. means according to claim 15, characterised in that means is provided for exhausting hot air and vapour from said jacket at or adjacent to its end lying nearer to said frame.    17. means according to any of claims 4 to 16, in combination with means arranged upstream of said frame for squeezing out part of the liquid content of the tube of   material    by passing the tube through   driven nip    rollers, characterised by means for synchronising the speed of rotation of the nip rollers with the speed of advance of the tube of material through said frame.    18. means according to claim 17, characterised in  that the synchronising means comprises a counterbalanced pivotable roller about which the tube of material leaving said nip rollers is led, or a pivotable scray into which the material leaving the nip rollers is deposited, and means responsive to the pivoting movements of said pivotable roller or scray for adjusting the speed of rotation of the nip rollers.    19. a method of reducing the liquid content of an open width fabric, characterised in that the fabric is passed across the apertured face of one of the hollow members referred to in claim 4 while a sub-atmospheric pressure is created in the hollow member.    20. apparatus for reducing the liquid content of an open width fabric, characterised in that it comprises one of the hollow members referred to in any of claims 4 to 8 and means for creating a sub-atmospheric pressure within the hollow member.     claims  1. a method of reducing the liquid content of airpermeable material in tubular form, especially for reducing the moisture content of tubular fabric, by moving the tube of material through means for applying suction to the external surface of the tube, characterised by moving the tube of material longitudinally through structure defining a surface surrounding the tube and formed with elongate   aper-    tures inclined at a slight angle to the direction of the longitudinal axis of the tube, applying forces to the tube to maintain it in open form and close against said   apertures    ed surface, and applying suction to said apertures to create a gas current from within said tube out through said apertures.    2. a method according to claim 1, characterised in that said structure defines a surface comprising a plurality of zones at least one of which is displaced from the other zone or zones of the surface in the direction of advance of the tube through the structure.       3    a method according to claim 1 or 2, characterised in that said elongate apertures are in the form of substantially straight elongate slots each having a length considerably greater than its width and inclined slightly to the direction of the longitudinal axis of the tube of material.    4. a method according to claim 3, characterised in that each slot is inclined at an angle of no more than 100 to the direction of the longitudinal axis of the tube of material.    5. apparatus for reducing the liquid content of airpermeable material in tubular form, especially for reducing the moisture content of tubular fabric, said apparatus comprising means for applying suction to the external surface of the tube, characterised in that said means comprises at least one hollow member defining a frame to surround said tube of material and presenting an inwardly-facing   surface thereto, said surface being   fbrmed with elorrgate    apertures inclined at a slight angle to the longitudinal direction of a tube of material passing through said frame and the apertures communicating with the interior of the hollow member or members, and in that the apparatus includes means for creating a sub-atmospheric pressure within the hollow member or members,  means for advancing the tube of material through the frame to move the external surface of the tube past said inwardly-facing apertured surface, and means for maintaining the tube in open form and close against said surface, whereby the suction will create a gas current from within, and substantially only from within, the tube into the hollow member or members.    6. apparatus according to claim 5,   characterised by    means for adjusting the cross-sectional area of the window opening of the frame to suit tubular material of different diameters.    7. apparatus according to claim 5 or 6, characterised in that each of the apertures in said inwardly-facing surface is in the form of a substantially straight, elongate slot having a length considerably greater than its width and disposed in the inwardly-facing surface of the hollow member with its axis slightly inclined to the direction of advance of the tubular   materialfthrough    the frame.    8. apparatus according to claim 7, characterised in that the axis of each of said slots is inclined at an angle of up to 100 to the direction of advance of the tube of material through the frame.    9. apparatus according to any one of claims 5 to 8, characterised in that the means for inducing said flow of hot air in the tube of material comprises a pair of driven nip rollers downstream of the region where the hot air is blown into the tube of material, said nip rollers serving to advance the tube of material both through said frame and through the apparatus for blowing hot air into the tube of material.      10. apparatus according to any one of claims 5 to 9, characterised by means for mounting said frame for pivotal movement about an axis substantially at right angles to the direction of advance of the tube of material through the frame, whereby the projected area for passage of the tube of material through the frame, on a plane disposed at right angles to the direction of advance of the tube of material, can be varied.    11. apparatus according to any one of claims 5 to 10, characterised in that it is combined with apparatus for blowing hot air into the tube of material downstream of said suction applying means, and means for inducing the hot air blown into the tube of material to flow along the latter in the direction opposite to the direction of advance of the tube of material through said frame.     12. apparatus according to claim 11, characterised in that the tube of material is arranged to pass over stretching means located between said frame and the apparatus for blowing hot air into the tube of material.      l.    apparatus according to claim 11 or 12,   character¯    ised   bg    a heat insulating jacket located between said frame and the apparatus for blowing hot air into the tube of material, through which the tube of material advances in its passage from said   frame    to the apparatus for blowing hot air into the tube.    14. apparatus according to claim 13, characterised in that said jacket is provided with means for exhausting hot air and   vapour    from a zone of the jacket disposed at or adjacent the end of the jacket lying nearer to said frame.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
