<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0007743
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800206
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B01J-8/00 B01J-8/02 C01C-1/04 B01J-8/04 C01C-1/00 <main>C01C-1/04</main> 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
synthesis of ammonia and converter system therefor.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
kellogg m w cous<sep>the m. w. kellogg company<sep>the m. w. kellogg companythree greenway plaza easthouston texas 77046-0395us<sep>the m. w. kellogg company  <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
becker lee<sep>eagle raymond schneider<sep>leblanc jr joseph ray<sep>patel vishnu a<sep>becker, lee<sep>eagle, raymond schneider<sep>leblanc, jr., joseph ray<sep>patel, vishnu a<sep>becker, lee14342 cindywoodhouston, texasus<sep>eagle, raymond schneider5651 indigohouston, texasus<sep>leblanc, jr., joseph ray4439 cherry oak lanehouston, texasus<sep>patel, vishnu a6655 winding tracehouston, texasus<sep>becker, lee<sep>eagle, raymond schneider<sep>leblanc, jr., joseph ray<sep>patel, vishnu a<sep>becker, lee14342 cindywoodhouston, texasus<sep>eagle, raymond schneider5651 indigohouston, texasus<sep>leblanc, jr., joseph ray4439 cherry oak lanehouston, texasus<sep>patel, vishnu a6655 winding tracehouston, texasus<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
an improved process for the synthesis of ammonia utiliz­ ing at least two catalyst beds wherein the temperature of the  synthesis feed gas and the effluent of at least one of the  catalyst beds is controlled without the addition of quench gas.   a radial ammonia converter system including first and second  heat interchangers respectively (14) and (15), and first, second  and third catalyst beds (21), (22), and (23).  the synthesis gas is  heated in said first and second interchangers by catalyst bed  effluent prior to full flow through each of the catalyst beds.  in  one embodiment, two of the catalyst beds are mounted with  the first and second interchangers in one vessel; and in  another embodiment, the first interchanger and second catal­ yst bed are mounted in one vessel and the second inter­ changer and first catalyst bed are mounted in a separate  vessel.  in both embodiments, the radial ammonia converter  system is completed by a third catalyst bed in a separate  vessel.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
syniesis of ammonia and system and converters therefor this invention relates to the synthesis of ammonia and ammonia converters. specifically, the ammonia converters of this invention are the radial design where the ammonia synthesis gas flows radially through the catalyst beds. further, the design is full flow, meaning all the synthesis gas feed passes though the first catalyst bed, all the effluent from the first catalyst bed passes through the second catalyst bed and all the effluent from the second catalyst bed passes through the third catalyst bed. a book entitled "ammonia part iiit', edited by a.v. slack and g. russell james, published by marcel decker, inc., 1977, describes the commercial ammonia processes of fourteen (14) companies in chapter 9, pages 291 to 369 inclusive. most of the commercial processes use a quench type ammonia converter. in a quench type converter, the synthesis gas is passed through a plurality of catalyst beds with a part of the synthesis gas being directed and admixed with the effluent from the catalyst beds to cool the effluent before passing to the next catalyst bed. the disadvantage of this type of ammonia converter is that all of the systhesis gas does not pa86 tbrough all of the catalyst beds. quench type converters are also disclosed in u.s. patents 9,784j361; 3,972,988; 3,567,404; 3,694,169, 8,475,136; publications "radial converter shows big benefit6 for ammonia", petroleum international, nov. 1974, vol. 14, no. 11, pp. 72-76; and nitrogen, may/june 1976, vol. no. 101, pp. 42-43. radial type ammonia converters of topsbe are also disclosed as having one or two catalyst beds (fig. 26, torsos singular bed radial converter and fig. 27, topsoe two bed radial converter) on pages 846 and 347 of the book "ammonia part iii; referred to hereinabove. all of these- topsoe converters appear to utilize quench gas, at least in part, to control the temperature of catalyst bed effluent. the use of secondary feed and recycled effluent mixing is disclosed in u.s. patents 3,918,918; 3,998,832; and 3,841869. the book "ammonia part 1111? also discloses ammonia converters having indirect heat exchange between catalyst beds, however, in each of these designs, the synthesis gas is passed downwardly or axially through the beds (fig. 12, osw ammonia converter, page 315) which causes large pressure drops. synthesis gas flow is also axial in the braun process as discussed on pp. 364-365, fig. 39, of the book. see also, nitrogen, no. loo, march/april, 1976. u.s. patent 4,101,281 discloses a radial-flow reactor for the synthesis of ammonia, with two catalyst beds, which contains in its interior a boiler for the production of steam. the ammonia synthesis pressure of all of the ammonia commercial processes disclosed in the "ammonia part 11111 book are in excess of 150 atmospheres and in most cases exceed 200 atmospheres. on page 354, it is stated that "(t) the present trend of design of ammonia plants is to higher loop pressure in order to get higher ammonia conversion per pass in the converter." the only disclosure of 100
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
what we clam is:   1. a process for the synthesis of ammonia wherein a synthesis feed gas consisting essentially of hydrogen and nitrogen in approximately a 3 to 1 ratio is passed through    at least one heat exchanger to heat said d synthesis feed gas    to a first reaction temperature and passing the heated synthesis feed gas at the first reaction temperature through a first ammonia synthesis catalyst bed wherein an exothermic reaction occurs to produce a first effluent containing ammonia, characterized by passing a portion of said first catalyst bed effluent through one of said heat exchangers to cool said portion of said first catalyst bed effluent; mixing said cooled portion of said first catalyst bed effluent with the remaining portion of said first catalyst bed effluent to adjust the temperature of the mixture to a second reaction temperature;  and passing said mixed first catalyst bed effluent at said second reaction temperature through a second ammonia synthesis catalyst bed wherein an exothermic reaction occurs to produce a second catalyst bed effluent containing further ammonia.   2. a process according to claim 1, characterized by exchanging said portion of first catalyst bed effluent with said synthesis feed gas in order to at least partially heat said synthesis gas to   said    first reaction temperature   8imul-    taneously with the cooling of said first catalyst bed effluent portion.   3. a process according to claim 1 or 2,   characterized    by passing a portion of said second catalyst bed effluent through one of said heat exchangers to cool said portion of said second catalyst bed effluent; mixing said cooled portion of said second catalyst-bed effluent with the remaining portion of said second catalyst bed effluent to adjust the temperature of the mixture to a third reaction temperature, and passing said mixed second catalyst bed effluent at said third reaction temperature through a third ammonia synthesis catalyst bed wherein an exothermic reaction occurs to produce a third catalyst bed effluent containing further ammonia.   4. a process according to claim 3, characterized by exchanging said portion of second catalyst bed effluent with  said synthesis feed gas in order to at least partially heat said synthesis feed gas to said first reaction temperature simultaneously with the cooling of said second catalyst bed effluent portion.   5. a process according to claim 3 or 4, characterized by the fact that the pressure drops between said synthesis feed gas at said first reaction temperature and said third effluent from said third catalyst bed is within a range of 0.5 to 3 atmospheres.   6. a process according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized by the fact that the pressure of said synthesis feed gas and said effluents of said first and second catalyst beds, and if present, third catalyst bed, is within a range of 20 to 95 atmospheres.   7. a process according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized by the fact that all of the synthesis gas is passed through said first catalyst bed and/or all of the effluent of the first catalyst bed is passed through said second catalyst bed and/or, if there is a third catalyst bed, all of the effluent of said second catalyst bed is passed through said third catalyst bed.   8. a process according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized by the fact that the synthesis feed gas or catalyst bed effluent is passed through said ammonia synthesis catalyst bed radially.   9. a process according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized by the fact that the pressure drop through each ammonia synthesis catalyst bed is less than 1 atmosphere.   10. a process according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized by bypassing a portion of the effluent of at least one catalyst bed from passage through said one of said indirect heat exchangers to control the temperature of said effluent and/or bypassing a portion of said synthesis gas passed through at least one of said indirect heat exchangers to control the temperature of synthesis gas entering said first catalyst bed.   11. an ammonia converter system, characterized by a first annular-shaped, ammonia synthesis catalyst bed (118;  204); synthesis gas transfer means   (121t    207) for directing ammonia synthesis gas to and for radially inward flow through said first catalyst bed to produce a first catalyst bed effluent containing ammonia; a second annular-shaped, ammonia synthesis catalyst bed (119; 202); first effluent transfer means (c-3,   s-5;    207,   c-8)    for directing said first catalyst bed effluent to and for radially inward flow through said second catalyst bed to produce a second catalyst bed effluent containing additional ammonia; a third annular-shaped,   ammonia    synthesis catalyst bed (120); second effluent transfer means (c-s, 106, c-6;  231, c-6) for directing said second catalyst bed effluent to and for radially inward flow through said third catalyst bed (120) to produce a third effluent containing additional ammonia; said second effluent transfer means including a first heat exchange means (116; 201) positioned below said second catalyst bed (119; 202) for cooling at least a portion of said second catalyst bed effluent prior to introduction of said second catalyst bed effluent in said third catalyst bed; and said first effluent transfer means including a second heat exchange means (117; 203) positioned inside of said first catalyst bed   (118;    204) and in fluid communication therewith for cooling at least a portion of said effluent from said first catalyst bed prior to introduction of said first catalyst bed effluent into said second catalyst bed.   12. a system according to claim 11, characterized by the fact that said synthesis gas transfer means includes a transfer conduit (125) positioned partly inside of said second catalyst bed (119) and connected to said first and second heat exchange means (116, 117).   13. a system according to claim 11 or 12, characterized by a single vessel (v-1) housing said first and second heat exchange means and said first and second catalyst beds.   14. a system according to claim 11, characterized by a first vessel (v-3) housing said first heat exchange means (201) and said second catalyst bed (202); and a second vessel (v-4) housing said second heat exchange means (203) and said first catalyst bed (204).   15. an ammonia converter, characterized by a vessel  which includes a bottom head, a main cylindrical shell and a top head, characterized by a first annular-shaped, ammonia synthesis catalyst bed (118) in the upper portion of said vessel; a second annular-shaped, ammonia synthesis catalyst bed (119) in the intermediate portion of said vessel; a first interchanger (116) which includes a tube bundle positioned below said second catalyst bed; a second interchanger (117) which includes a tube bundle positioned concentrically in said first catalyst bed; synthesis gas transfer means (121) which includes the tubes of said first and second interchanger for directing said feed gas to and for radially inward flow through said first catalyst bed to produce a first catalyst bed effluent containing ammonia;  first effluent transfer means (c-3,   s-5)    for directing said first catalyst bed effluent to and for radially inward flow through said second catalyst bed to produce a second catalyst bed effluent containing additional ammonia; and second effluent transfer means   (c-5;    106) for directing said second catalyst bed effluent out of said vessel.   16. an ammonia converter, characterized by a vessel which includes a bottom head, a main shell and a top head characterized by an internal annular catalyst bed (119) mounted in said vessel and spaced from said main shell to form an annular space (s-l) between said catalyst bed and said shell from the top to the bottom of said bed; gas transfer means which include inlet means (107) entering the bottom of said vessel, a vertical pipe section (125; 107b) along the axis of said vessel and spaced from said annular catalyst bed and means for directing gas to said annular space between said catalyst bed and said shell; and outlet means (108) concentric with said inlet means for removing the effluent from said catalyst bed from said vessel.    17. an ammonia converter, characterized by a vessel which includes a bottom head, a main shell and a top head; an internal annular catalyst bed mounted to said main shell, said bed being spaced from and parallel to said main shell; an interchanger (210) mounted on said bottom head; gas transfer means (207) which extends axially through said vessel and includes a transfer conduit (212) flexibly joined to said   interchanger which extends through and is spaced from said annular catalyst bed; means (239) extending from said gas transfer means which covers said annular catalyst bed; inlet means (240) in said top head (206b); and outlet means (213) in said bottom head.    18. an ammonia converter, characterized by a vessel which includes a bottom head, a main cylindrical shell and a top head; an internal annular catalyst bed (118; 204) mounted in said vessel, spaced from and extending parallel to said main shell to form an annular space between said catalyst bed and said shell; an interchanger (117; 203) mounted within the annulus of said catalyst bed and spaced from said bed; gas transfer means which include inlet means for passing gas through the tubes of the tube bundle of said interchanger and then into said annular space   (s-1;      s-9)    between said catalyst bed and said shell; and effluent transfer means (140; 207) for passing the major portion of the catalyst bed effluent on the shell side of said tube bundle and then out of said vessel.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
