<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0013113
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800709
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
H01M-10/36 H01M-8/22 H01M-10/38 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
a process and apparatus for the production of electrical energy from the neutralization of acid and base in a bipolar membrane cell.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
allied corpus <sep>allied corporation <sep>allied corporationcolumbia road and park avenue p.o. box 2245r (law dept.)morristown new jersey 07960us<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
walther james fletcherus<sep>walther, james fletcher<sep>walther, james fletcherrd no 1 lake roadskaneateles, new york 13150us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
electrical energy is generated from acid-base neutraliza­ tion reactions in electrodialytic cells.  permselective bipolar  membranes (11) in cell container (10) are contacted on their  cation selective faces (15) by aqueous acid streams and on  their anion-selective faces (13) by aqueous base streams.   spontaneous neutralization reactions between the basic  anions and acidic cations through the bipolar membranes (11)  produce electrical potential differences between the acid and  base streams.  these potential differences are transmitted to  electrodes (21, 23) to produce electrical energy which is with­ drawn from these cells.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
description a process and apparatus for the production of electrical energy from the neutralization of acid and base in a bipolar membrane cell background of tue invention field of the invention this invention relates to a process for the production of electrical energy from the neutralization of aqueous acid and base streams in a cell having a bipolar membrane. description of the prior art electrochemical cells useful for the interconversion of chemical and electrical energy are well known in the prior art. when at least two distinct regions, e.g., unit cells or half cells, having unequal chemical potentials are connected ionically through suitable dividers at least semiporous to ion current flow and electrically through a suitable electrical connecting means between electrodes in contact with these regions, electrical energy, i.e., electron current is allowed to flow through the electrical connecting means. unequal chemical potentials created by differences in concentration or differences in electron-acceptance i.e., reducibility, and electron-release, i.e., oxidizability, are well known to one of ordinary skill in the art. recent advances in bipolar membrane technology have allowed production of commercially important acids and bases from neutral salts by electrodialytic watersplitting. for example, u.s. patent 3,787,304 describes a process for the production of hydrofluoric acid and hydroxide base by electrodialytic water-splitting of fluoride salt in a bipolar membrane cell. however, the production of electrical energy by spontaneous neutralization of aqueous acid and base streams is not taught. zeigerson and dekorosy (israel journal of chemistry, 9 (no. 4), pp. 483-97 (1971).) conducted rectification experiments with a bipolar membrane cell and disclose that a small amount of electrical power can be generated from acid-base neutralizations across a bipolar membrane when acid is on the anion permeable face and base is on the cation permeable face of the membrane. however, the cell does not operate reversibly and does not generate commercially significant quantities of electrical power. japanese patent no. 50-83735 discloses cells constructed with carbon electrodes positioned in aqueous acid and base solutions separated by a porous diaphragm. although this diaphragm permits neutralization and buffering between the acid and base solutions, the cell operates without bipolar membranes to generate electrical energy from spontaneous oxidation-reduction reactions at the electrodes. while it is known in the prior art that dissociation of a salt into an acid and a base requires the input of electrical energy, the prior art has not recognized any efficient method to create, collect and employ electrical potential differences from neutralization reactions of acids and bases. brief description of the invention according to the present invention, there is provided a process for the production of electrical energy from the neutralization of acid and base in a cell with a bipolar membrane having a cation-permselective face and an anion-permselective face, said membrane being positioned between two electrodes in electrical connection with one another, said connection having an electrical receiving means to receive electrical energy from said electrodes, which comprises the steps of: : (a) simultaneously contacting an acid stream with said cation-permselective face of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
   @gar    is claimed is:      1    a process for the production of electrical energy from the neutralization of acid and base   in.    a cell with a bipolar membrane   hav@@g      @@    cat tive face and an anion-permselective   faces      a    being positioned between two. electrodes in   lectrical    connection with one another, said   conne@tion    naving   ar,    electrical receiving means to receive electrical energy from said electrodes, which comprises the steps of: :  (a) simultaneously contacting an aqueous acid stream with said cation-permselective face of said bipolar membrane and an aqueous base stream with said anion-permselective face of said bipolar membrane whereby the contact of said acid and said base streams through said faces of said bipolar membrane produces an electrical potential   difference    between said streams;  (b) transmitting said potential difference to said electrodes; and  (c) withdrawing electrical energy produced thereby from said electrodes through said electrical connection to said electrical receiving means,  2. a process as described in claim i   wherein    the cell additionally comprises two electrode compartments formed by positioning a porous   dozed    between each face of the bipolar membrane and   each      electsrod    wherein said electrode compartments are   upped      witn    a supporting electrolyte stream containing a sodium, potassium or ammonium salt.    3. a process as described in claims 1 or 2 wherein the two electrodes are energy-supplying or energy-demanding.    4. a process as described in claim 2 wherein the porous divider positioned between the face of the bipolar membrane and the electrode is a cationlective   membrane     5. a process as described in claim   z    wherein the porous divider positioned between the face of the bipolar membrane and the electrode is an anier-perm-  selective membrane.    6. a process as described in claim 1 wherein the cell additionally comprises two electrode compartments, one compartment formed by positioning a cationpermselective membrane between one electrode and the anion face of the bipolar membrane and the other compartment formed by positioning an anion permselective membrane between the other electrode and the cation face of said bipolar membrane and wherein each electrode compartment is supplied with a supporting electrolyte stream having a sodium, potassium or ammonium salt.    7. a process as described in claim 6 wherein a plurality of cells comprising alternating cation permselective, bipolar membranes and anion permselective membranes is employed.    8. a process as described in claim 7 wherein a salt compartment is positioned between   g    base compartment of one unit cell bounded by a cation permselective membrane and an acid compartment bounded by an anion permselective membrane, the salt compartment is supplied with an aqueous solution of salt compatible with acid and base supplied to adjacent acid and base compartments, respectively.    9. an apparatus for the production of electrical energy from the neutralization of   aqueous    acid and base streams through a bipolar   membrare    which consists essentially of:  (a) a cell container;  (b) a bipolar membrane   dividin    said container into two aqueous solution-holding compartments, said bipolar membrane having a   cationper::: :selective    side and an anion-permselective side;  (c) an inlet to introduce an   aqueous    stream into each compartment and to place said streams in contact with opposite sides of said bipolar   membrane;     (d) an outlet to remove said   aqueous    streams from each of said compartments;  (e) an electrode positioned or. each of the      noose    sides of said bipolar membrane and adapted to   t    in electrochemical contact with said aqueous streams; and  (f) optionally a porous divider positioned between one side of said bipolar membrane and one electrode thereby forming an electrode compartment.     10. an apparatus as described in claim 9 wherein no porous divider is present.    11. an apparatus as described in claim 9 wherein a porous divider is positioned between the cation side of said bipolar membrane and one electrode thereby forming an electrode compartment.    12. an apparatus as described in claim 9 wherein a porous divider is positioned between the anion side of said bipolar membrane and one electrode thereby forming an electrode compartment.    13. an apparatus as described in claim 9 wherein the two electrodes are energy-supplying.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
