<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0007770
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800206
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B41K-3/58 B41F-31/16 B41F-31/00 B41K-3/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
printing machine.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
lotomation ltdgb<sep>lotomation limited<sep>lotomation limited9 heathgate london n w 11 gb <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
pueschel johannesgb<sep>pueschel, johannes<sep>pueschel, johannes6 leighton courtdunstable bedfordshiregb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a printing machine in which a document is fed to a print­ ing station (13) where an impression of a row of printing  characters is delivered, on application of pressure between  the document and the characters, to the document by a thin  plastic inked tape (1) which passes from a supply spool (3) via  the printing station to take-up spool (5) on which tape is  incrementally wound between printing impressions.  in order to reduce swell of the take-up spool and axial  movement of tape thereon, a rotatable cylindrical indexing  member (87) provided with a circular series of projections (89)  is biassed into driving engagement with tape on the take-up  spool so that several layers of tape are penetrated and tape in  the outer layer perforated by a projection extends through  apertures in inner layers formed by the projection thereby  fixedly securing the outer layer relative to the inner layers.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
this invention relates to printing machines. in printing machines in which a thin plastic inked tape delivers an impression of a row of printing characters to a document fed to a printing station, and a single drive means incrementally winds tape from a supply spool by way of the printing station to a take-up spool, a variety of problems may be encountered. during printing, a row of printing characters is pressed against the tape at the printing station, and on release of pressure the tape generally remains in engagement with the characters. in typewriters or similar machines where only one character is printed at each stroke, the force needed to release the tape from the character is small, but for a row of characters, the force required can be substantial. if the force is applied suddenly, tape may unspool from the supply spool, or the tape may tear or break, and accordingly it is necessary to distribute the force in some way. moreover, in some printing machines the configuration is such that, as the amount of tape wound onto the take-up spool increases, the plane of the tape passing from the print station to the take-up spool lies more nearly in the plane of the row of printing characters and the force needed to release the tape from the characters increases. in many prior art machines the take-up spool becomes swollen; that is, it has a larger diameter for a given length of tape wound thereon than the diameter of a supply spool supporting the same length of tape. swelling may be caused by loose winding of tape onto the take-up spool. also, the tape becomes embossed by impact of the printing characters which, particularly in association with loose winding, can cause substantial swelling. such swelling should be avoided if possible. first, it can render the force needed to release tape from the characters unnecessarily large as described above. secondly, it causes inefficient use of space within the machine and, if the supply spool and take-up spool are provided within a cartridge, the size of the cartridge required to accommodate the take-up spool may become unacceptably large. thirdly, slippage of tape on the take-up spool is likely. as the diameter of the take-up spool increases, and particularly if the tape is being tightly wound onto the spool, the tape has a- tendency to move axially during winding. thus, the surfaces formed by the edges of tape wound on the take-up spool, instead of being flat and lying perpendicular to the axis of rotation of the spool, become conical. this axial movement introduces additional stresses to the winding mechanism and there is a danger of the tape breaking. tape is wasted if the take-up spool is incremented through a fixed angle between printing strokes, and the wastage increases as the diameter of the tape on the take-up spool increase 8. consequently it is preferable to wind tape onto the take-up spool in equal increments. various propositions have been made to overcome
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:   1. a printing machine comprising a printing station (13) and a printing device (12) for presenting a row of printing characters to the printing station; a supply spool (3) and take-up spool (5) with a thin plastic inked tape (1) extending therebetween by way of the printing station; means (17) for applying pressure between the row of printing ch#aracters and a document fed to the printing station so that an impression of said row is delivered by the   t ape    to the document during dwell of the tape at the printing station;  and a drive means for incrementally winding said tape from the supply spool onto the take-up spool, characterised in that the drive means comprises a generally cylindrical rotatable indexing member (87) provided with a circular series of projections (89) extending around the circumference of the member, the axis of rotation of the member extending parallel with the axis of rotation of the take-up spool, and biassing means (81) biassing, in operation, the indexing member into driving engagement with tape on the take-up spool with sufficient force to penetrate several layers of tape so that tape in the outer layer perforated by a projection extends through apertures in inner layers formed by the projection thereby fixedly securing the outer layer relative to the inner layers.     2. a printing machine as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that the indexing member is provided with two circular series (88,90) of projections extending around the circumference of the member.   3. a printing machine as claimed in claim 2, characterised in that the two series of projections are situated in relation to the take-up spool at locations equally spaced from the centre-line of tape on the take-up spool.   4. a printing machine as claimed in claim   3    characterised in that each series has the same number of projections and each projection in the second series lies on a line parallel to the axis of rotation of the member through a respective projection in the first series.   5. a printing machine as claimed in any preceding claim characterised in that the drive means comprises a reciprocable driving mechanism   (60,61,63,65,69,71)    whereby the indexing member is driven in one sense only and through a predetermined angle by each reciprocation of the driving mechanism, so that the indexing member effects winding onto the take-up spool of equal increments of tape upon respective reciprocations of the driving mechanism.     6. a printing machine as claimed in any preceding claim characterised in that the means for applying pressure between the row of printing characters and a document fed to the printing station comprise an impression wheel (17) rotatably mounted on a shaft (19) carried at respective ends thereof on parallel endless bands (21) driven by powered wheel means   (39)    in engagement with one at least of said bands, the ends of the shaft when traversing the upper run of the endless bands resiliently engaging respective rails (29) as the impression wheel performs a printing stroke.    7. a printing machine as claimed in claim 6, characterised in that the resilient engagement of the ends of the shaft (19) with the rails (29) is effected by rollers (25) at respective ends of the shaft on each of which is provided a tyre (27).   8. a printing machine as claimed in claim 6 or claim 7, characterised in that the shaft of the impression   wheel    at the completion of each print stroke actuates the reciprocable driving mechanism.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
