<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0017493
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19801015
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
G05D-16/00 A01J-5/00 A01J-5/04 G05D-16/16 G05D-16/04 G05D-16/06 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
improvements in and relating to vacuum regulators.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
fullwood & bland ltdgb <sep>r.j. fullwood & bland limited<sep>r.j. fullwood &amp; bland limited grange road ellesmere, shropshire sy12 9df gb<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
evans john richardgb<sep>evans, john richard<sep>evans, john richard"woodwinds" st. martins roadgobowen oswestry salopgb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
the present invention provides a vacuum regulator,  which comprises a main valve (12) for admitting air to a pilot  vacuum system at a controlled rate, a chamber (13) bounded  in part by a first movable wall (9) which is connected to the  main valve and movement of which varies the setting of the  main valve, a pilot valve (21) for admitting air to the said  chamber at a controlled rate, the pilot valve being connected  to a second movable wall (19), movement of which varies the  setting of the pilot valve, a spring (24) arranged to exert a  substantially constant force on the pilot valve tending to  increase its degree of opening, one side of the first movable  wall being subjected to the pressure within the said chamber  and the other side being subjected, in operation, to a  pressure greater than that prevailing within the said cham­ ber, and one side of the second movable wall being  subjected, in operation, to the pressure in the vacuum  system and the other side being subjected to atmospheric  pressure, and a high impedance conduit (7) through which,  in operation, air can flow out of the said chamber into the  vacuum system, the arrangement being such that, in opera­ tion, movement of the first movable wall resulting from an  increase or a decrease in the pressure in the said chamber  decreases or increases, respectively, the degree of opening  of the main valve, and that movement of the second movable  wall resulting from an increase or a decrease in the pressure  in the vacuum system causes the degree of opening of the  pilot valve to increase or decrease, respectively, and that  there is a force, in addition to the force exerted on the first  movable wall by the pressure in the acid chamber, tending to  decrease the degree of opening of the main valve.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
"improvements in and relating to vacuum regulators" the present invention relates to vacuum regulators, and especially to vacuum regulators for use in vacuum milking apparatus. in vacuum milking apparatus, it is desired to maintain a constant level of vacuum, but air tends to leak into the system at a varying rate. accordingly, it is known to provide a vacuum pump of sufficient capacity to maintain more than the desired degree of vacuum and then to provide a vacuum regulator, which is a device that allows air to leak into the system at such a rate as to maintain the vacuum in the system at a given level. throughout the specification, references to a degree or level of vacuum and references to pressures are to be understood as references to gauge values and not as references to absolute values. british patent specification no. 965,774 discloses a regulator for controlling the flow of gas at a superatmospheric pressure. the present invention is based on the realisation that the design of the gas regulator described in that specification can be adapted to provide a vacuum regulator. the invention provides a vacuum regulator, which comprises a main valve for admitting air to a vacuum system at a controlled rate, a chamber bounded in part by a first movable wall which is connected to the main valve and movement of which varies the setting of the main valve, a pilot valve for admitting air to the said chamber at a controlled rate, the pilot valve being connected to a second movable wall, movement of which varies the setting of the pilot valve, means arranged to exert a substantially constant force on the pilot valve tending to increase its degree of opening, one side of the first movable wall being subjected to the pressure within the said chamber and the other side being subjected, in operation, to a pressure greater than that prevailing within the said chamber, and one side of the second movable wall being subjected, in operation, to the pressure in the vacuum system 'and the other side being subjected to atmospheric pressure, and high impedance conduit means through which, in operation, air can flow out of the said chamber into the vacuum system, the arrangement being such that, in operation, movement of the first movable wall resulting from an increase or a decrease in the pressure in the said chamber decreases or increases, respectively, the degree of opening -of the main valve, and that movement of the second movable wall resulting from an increase or a decrease in the pressure in the vacuum system causes the degree of opening of the pilot valve to increase or decrease, respectively, and that there is a force, in addition to the force exerted on the first movable wall by the pressure in the said chamber, tending to decrease the degree of opening of the main valve. in operation, the force exerted on the main valve as a result of the pressure differential across the first movable
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
what we claim is:    1. a vacuum regulator, which comprises a main valve for admitting air to a vacuum system at a controlled rate, a chamber bounded in part by a first movable wall which is connected to the main valve and movement of which varies the setting of the main valve, a pilot valve for admitting air to the said chamber at a controlled rate, the pilot valve being connected to a second movable wall, movement of which varies the setting of the pilot valve, means arranged to exert a substantially constant force on the pilot valve tending to increase its degree of opening, one side of the first movable wall being subjected to the pressure within the said chamber and the other side being subjected, in operation, to a pressure greater than that prevailing within the said chamber, and one side of the second movable wall being subjected, in operation,  to the pressure in the vacuum system and the other side being subjected to atmospheric pressure, and high impedance conduit means through which, in operation, air can flow out of the said chamber into the vacuum system, the arrangement being such that, in operation, movement of the first movable wall resulting from an increase or a decrease in the pressure in the said chamber decreases or increases, respectively, the degree of opening of the main valve, and that movement of the second movable wall resulting from an increase or a decrease in the pressure in the vacuum system causes the degree of opening of the pilot valve to increase or decrease, respectively, and that there is a force, in addition to the force exerted on the first movable wall by the pressure in the said chamber, tending to decrease the degree of opening of the main valve.    2. a vacuum regulator as claimed in claim 1, wherein one or each of the movable walls is a flexible diaphragm.    3. a vacuum regulator as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the means arranged to exert a substantially  constant force on the pilot valve is adjustable to enable the magnitude of the substantially constant force to be adjusted.    4. a vacuum regulator as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the means arranged to exert a substantially constant force on the pilot valve comprises resilient means.    5. a vacuum regulator as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the main valve is so constructed that, in operation, air entering the vacuum system through the main valve exerts an aerodynamic force on the main valve which force constitutes at least a part of the additional force tending to   degrease    the degree of opening of the main valve.    6. a vacuum regulator as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5, which includes resilient means arranged to provide or augment the additional force tending to decrease the degree of opening of the main valve.    7. a vacuum regulator as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 6, which comprises a second chamber having inlet means for atmospheric air, which chamber is separated from the first-mentioned chamber by the first movable wall and from which air can, in operation, enter the vacuum system through the main valve.    8. a vacuum regulator as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 7, which comprises a third chamber having inlet means for atmospheric air, which chamber is bounded in part by the second movable wall and from which air can pass into the first-mentioned chamber through the pilot valve.     9. a vacuum regulator as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 8, which comprises a fourth chamber which is bounded in part by the second movable wall and which, in operation, is in communication with the vacuum system.    10. a vacuum regulator as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the high impedance conduit means comprises a conduit formed with a constriction.    11. a vacuum regulator substantially as hereinbefore  described with reference to, and as shown in, fig. 1 or fig.   2 of the accompanying drawings.    12. a vacuum milking apparatus which includes a vacuum regulator as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 11, the vacuum regulator being arranged, in operation, to maintain the level of vacuum in the vacuum system of the milking apparatus substantially constant.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
