<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0007567
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800206
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
C10M-173/02 C10M-173/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
aqueous hydraulic liquid and concentrates thereof having improved corrosion-protective properties for metals.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
theunissen helmut<sep>theunissen, helmut<sep>theunissen, helmutbromberger strasse 81d-5600 wuppertal 2de<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
theunissen helmut<sep>theunissen, helmut<sep>theunissen, helmutbromberger strasse 81d-5600 wuppertal 2de<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
the present invention is related to the decrease of corro­ sion of metallic surfaces by aqueous hydraulic liquids contact­ ing the same and corrosion inhibiting additives for such  aqueous hydraulic liquids.  more in particular, the present  invention is related to aqueous hydraulic liquid concentrates  comprising a mixture of particular additives which concen­ trates can be diluted with water to yield the aqueous hydraulic  liquids with improved anti-corrosion properties.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
aqueous hydraulic liquid wita improved corrosion protection properties to metals 25 dh, 20 dh. of t1r. i1tht.ntio the present invention is related to the decrease of corrosion of metallic surfaces by aqueous hydraulic liquids contacting the same and corrosion inhibiting additives for such aqueous hydraulic liquids. more in particular, the present invcntion is related to aqueous hydraulic liquid concentrates lich can be diluted with water to yield the aqueous hydraulic liquids with improved anti-corrosion properties. in many technical areas the transfer and maintenance of pressure is effected by means of aqueous hydraulic liquids containing certain additives to prevent corrosion of the metallic containers, pistons, and connecting tubes by the water of the hydraulic liquids and in particular various mineral salts contained in many natural spring waters used for such aqueous hydraulic liquids. for instance, such aqueous hydraulic liquids are used to a great extent and volume in hydraulic pit prop by-pass systems in underground mining. in such systems the corrosion problem is particular serious because the water which is available for such hydraulic systems quite often has a high hardness caused by a high concentration of mineral salts therein. as is well known, such spring waters may have a hardness well above 250do, for instance up to 800dh while normal spring water is characterized by a hardness of 200dun. up to now there are two kinds of anti-corrosion additives which are added to the spring water in order to allow its use as aqueous hydraulic liquids in underground mining. the one kind consists of about so 46 of mineral oil and 20 9h of one or several enulgators, netting agents, corrosion resistance additives and biocides. such corrosion resistance additives useful for this particular field of application are described for instance in cerman patent specification 1 259 175. such additive mixtures are used to a very great extent. they are added in amounts of about 1 s to the water used as hydraulic liquid. thus, dilute aqueous emulsions are obtained. as all emulsion products they have the disadvantage that they are not stable to changes in temperatures and, in particular, are stable only in rather soft water with hardness values of up to 25 dh. therefor, water to be used in combination with such additives has to be demineralized and thereby softened in order to allow the production of aqueous hydraulic liquids providing sufficient corrosion protection. this of course considerably increases the costs for the preparation of such hydraulic liquids. furthermore, emulsions are known to be sensible to changes in the water hardness. finally, such emulsions are readily subject to the noxious growth of bacteria. since the concentration range with such corrosion protective additives based on mineral oil is very narrow for the hydraulic liquids to be produced, the hydraulic liquids cannot readily be prepared at the place of use. if the additive is added to the water at too high a concentration, the formation of a homogenous emulsion is rendered impossible. this again may cause a considerable decrease in the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:   1. an aqueous hydraulic liquid concentrate with   improved     corrosion protection properties to metal surfaces contacted  therewith characterized in that it contains besides water  a) a metal corrosion protection agent stable in hard water,  a mixture of several of such corrosion protection agents  and, possibly, another metal corrosion protection agent  (different from the above agents),  b) a surface active agent or a mixture of several surface  active agents, and  c) a natural or synthetic oil which is substantially  insoluble in water and   which    can be emulgated in water,  or a mixture of several such -oils.   2. an aqueous hydraulic liquid concentrate according to claim    1    characterized in that the components a), b) and c) are  present in a weight ratio of (from 10 to 500) : (from 3  to 75) : 1.   3. an aqueous hydraulic liquid concentrate according to claims    1    and 2 characterized in that it contains the components  a), b) and c) are present in a weight ratio of (from 10 to  60) : (from 3 to 20) :   1.        4. an aqueous hydraulic liquid concentrate according to claims    i    and 2 characterized in that it contains, calculated to  the total weight of the three components a), b) and c), the  corrosion protection agent stable in hard water or the  mixture of several such   corrosion    protection agents in an  amount corresponding to more than 50 % by weight, the oil  or the mixture of oils in an amount corresponding to 0.1 to  6   ,'    by weight, and the surface active agent or mixture of  surface active agents as remainder amount to 100   5'    by weight.   5. an aqueous hydraulic liquid concentrate according to claim 4  characterized in that it contains the corrosion resistant  agent or the mixture thereof in an amount corresponding to  more than 60   s6    by weight, the oil or mixture of oils in an    amount    corresponding to   1    to 5 % by weight besides the  surface active agent or mixture of several such surface  active agents as remainder amount.   6. an aqueous hydraulic liquid concentrate according to claims    i    to 5 characterized in that it additionally contains a  minor amount of one or several compounds selected from the  group consisting of a biocide, an nonferrous metal inhibitor,  and a lubricating agent.   7. an aqueous hydraulic liquid with improved corrosion protection  properties to metal surface s contacted therewith character    sized    in that it contains besides water 0.5 to   2 ffi    by weight  of mixture of    a) a   metal    corrosion protection agent stable in hard water,  a mixture of several of such corrosion protection agents  and, possibly, another metal corrosion protection agent  (different from the above agents),  b) a surface active agent or a mixture of several surface  active   active   agents, and  c) a natural or synthetic oil which is substantially  insoluble in water and which can be emulgated in water,  or a mixture of several such oils.   8. an aqueous hydraulic liquid according to claim 7 characterized  in that the components a), b) and c) are present in a weight  ratio of (from 10 to 500) : (from 3 to 75) :   t.      9. an aqueous hydraulic liquid according to claims 7 and 8  characterized in that it contains the components a), b) and  c) are present in a weight ratio of (from 10 to 60) : (from  3 to 20) : 1.   10. an aqueous hydraulic liquid according to claims 7 and 8  characterized in that it contains, calculated to the total  weight of the three components a), b) and c), the corrosion  protection agent stable in hard water or the mixture of  several such corrision protection agents in an amount  corresponding to more than 50 % by weight, the oil or the  mixture of oils in an amount corresponding to   0.    to 6 %    by weight, and the surface active agent or mixture of  surface active agents as remainder amount to 100   ,'    by  weight.       11.    an aqueous hydraulic liquid according to claim 10 characterized  in that it contains the corrosion resistant agent or the  mixture thereof in an amount corresponding to more than 60   fi     by weight, the oil or mixture of oils in an amount corres  ponding to   i    to 5   96    by weight besides the surface active  agent or mixture of several such surface active agents as  remainder amount.   12. an aqueous hydraulic liquid according to claims 7 to 11  characterized in that it additionally contains a minor amount  of one or several compounds selected from the group consisting  of a biocide, a nonferrous metal inhibitor, and a lubricating  agent.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
