<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0016559
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19801001
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B60R-16/02 B60R-16/03 H02J-3/00 H02J-1/00 H02J-7/14 H02J-7/16 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
electrical generating apparatus and method.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
caspersz gavin helbsy<sep>caspersz, gavin helbsy  <sep>caspersz, gavin helbsy46, bierton roadaylesbury buckinghamshiregb<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
caspersz gavin helbsy<sep>caspersz, gavin helbsy<sep>caspersz, gavin helbsy46, bierton roadaylesbury buckinghamshiregb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
the invention relates to an electrical generating  apparatus and method.  the apparatus comprises a polyphase  alternator (1,2) an internal combustion engine connected to  drive the alternator (1,2).  a step up polyphase transformer (7)  having its number of phases corresponding to the number of  phases of the alternator (1,2) is provided, and each phase of  the transformer (7) is connected to a phase output of the  alternator (1,2).  the output of the transformer (7) is higher  than that of the polyphase alternator (1,2).  the output of the  transformer (7) is rectified to provide a dc output which dc  output may optionally be inverted.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
an electrical generating apparatus and method the present invention relates to an electrical generating apparatus and method for obtaining an electrical supply from the output of g polyphase alternator, driven by an internal combustion engine. it is often desirable to run mains voltage appliances such as power tools or powerful lighting when a mains volts age supply is not available, e.g. in cars or boats or on building sites invariably, unless a mains generator is available which is costly, and bulky the only electrical supply present is of a low voltage, e.g. the 6, 12 or 24 volt electrics of motor vehicles such as cars, boats or building equipment such as cranes compressors or bulldozers it has been attempted to provide a system for obtaining a mains voltage supply from 12 volt lead acid batteries by inverting the dc voltage to provide 12 volts ac and then transforming this ac voltage to mains voltage, but only low power consuming mains voltage appliances can be run in this manner unless expensive circuitry is used. furthermore the inverter circuit is easily damaged if it is attempted tu run too high a power consuming appliance or if a short circuit occurs. accordingly the addition of protective circuits are necessary which adds considerably it is also known to use a rotary converter for obtain- to cost. inn a clams voltage supply from a 12 volt battery but it is not an efficient system. in both these known systems, the running of mains appliances off 12 vell batteries soon discharges the batteries, and the batteries must be continually charged e.g. by the alternator of a car, boat or building equipment engine, if any lower power consuming mains appliances are to be run for any length of time. furthermore, the amount of power available for the appliance is extremely low compared to the power provided by the alternator i.e. such systems are inefficient. the present invention seeks to provide an apparatus and method for obtaining an electrical # supply which is particularly suitable for enabling the running of high power consuming mains voltage appliances than has previously been possible from low voltage supplying alternators driven by internal combustion engines such as are present in land/vehicles, boats and building equipment. indeed the present invention is useful where a nigh voltage source is required in the absence of a mains voltage supply, and the only electrical source available is from an alternator driven by an internal combustion engine. in general most alternators driven by internal combust- ion engines are of the polyphase type e.g. three phases. the relatively high power output obtained with the present invention compared azith the known systems discussed above is obtained by the particular use of all the phases o-f¯the alternator. the present invention provides an electrical generating apparatus comprising 2 polyphase alternator, an internal combustion engine connected to drive said alternator, a step up polyphase transformer having its number of phases corresponding to the number of phases of the alternat-or -and each phase
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:   1. an electrical generating apparatus comprising a polyphase alternator, an internal combustion engine connected to drive said alternator, a step up polyphase transformer having its number of phases corresponding to the number of phases of the alternator and each phase of the transformer being conneeted to a phase output of the alternator whereby, in use, said transformer output voltage is higher than that of the alternator, and a rectifier connected to the output of the polyphase transformer to provide a dc output.      2.    an electrical generating apparatus according to claim 1 further   comprising    an invertor connected to said rectifier to provide an ac electrical supply.   3. an electrical generating apparatus according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the output of said alternator is additionally connected to a rectifier, which rectifier is further connected to a battery whereby said alternator charges said battery.   4. an electrical generating apparatus according to claim 3, wherein said alternator has a field winding which is connected to and excited by said battery, said apparatus further comprising a voltage regulator for maintaining the output of said alternator constant whereby said dc output is of substantially constant voltage.      5.    an electrical generating apparatus   according    to claim 3 or 4, further comprising an overload cutout, said alternator having a field winding excited by said battery and controlled by said cutout, whereby said cutout   disconnects    said field winding in response to excess load across the output of the alternator.      6    an electrical generating apparatus according to any    preceding claim wherein said internal combustion engine is  land boat or building equipment    part   of      a/vehicle,and    said alternator is connected to   charge    a battery associated with said vehicle.   7. an electrical generating apparatus according to any preceding claim further comprising switch means to disconnect one phase output of the transformer from the rectifier when an appliance connected to said   dc    or ac   output    is initially    switched on and for connecting the one phase to the rectifier  after the appliance is   switched    on.    8. a method for   obtaining    an electrical supply   from    the  output of a polyphase alternator' driven by an internal   com-     bustion engine wherein the   voltage    of said electrical supply  is   higher    than   that    of the output of the polyphase alternator  comprising providing a step up polyphase transformer having  its number of phases corresponding to the number of phases of  the alternator, and connecting each phase input of the tran-  sformer to a phase output of thc   alternator,    and rectifying  the output of the polyphase   transformer    to provide a dc output.    9. a method according to claim 8, further comprising  converting said dc output to provide an ac electrical supply.    10. a method according to   claim 6    or 9, wherein said  alternator output is additionally rectified to charge a  battery.    11. a method according to claim 10, wherein the field  winding of said alternator is excited by said battery and  controlled by a voltage regulator, whereby said dc output  is of substantially constant voltage.      12.      a    method according to claim 10 or 11, wherein said  field winding is excited by said   battery and    is controlled  by an overload cutout, said cutout disconnecting said field  winding in response to excess load across the output of the  alternator.     13. a method according to any of claims 8 to 12, wherein  said internal combustion engine is part of a land vehicle, boat or building and said equipment  alternator is connected to charge a battery associated   it     said vehicle.      14.    a method according to any of claims   8    to 13, further comprising providing switch means to disconnect one phase  output of the transformer   from    the rectifier when an appliance  connected to said dc or ac output is initially switched on  and for connecting   tho    one   phase    to the rectifier after   the     appliance has been   switched    on.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
