<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0007321
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800206
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B29C-1/04 B29C-65/70 B29C-65/48 B29C-43/20 B29C-43/10 B29C-27/00 <main>B29C-3/00</main> B29C-43/00 B29C-33/10 B29C-43/36 B29C-43/12 B29C-37/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
method of making a stress free plastic article or weld and apparatus for carrying out said method.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
garabedian armen<sep>garabedian, armen<sep>garabedian, armen8-22 astoria boulevardlong island city new york 11102us<sep>garabedian, armen<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
garabedian armen<sep>garabedian, armen<sep>garabedian, armen8-22 astoria boulevardlong island city new york 11102us<sep>garabedian, armen<sep>garabedian, armen8-22 astoria boulevardlong island city new york 11102us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
disclosed is a method and apparatus for making stress  free plastic articles from plastic particles such as powder utiliz­ ing heat and pressure in which a quantity of plastic particles  (83) is supplied to a first member (82), a flexible diaphragm  (90) is disposed in opposed relationship to said first member  with said plastic particles therebetween, a micro-porous air  release means (84), (85) is positioned between said plastic  particles (83) and said flexible diaphragm (90), a fluid-like  pressure is applied to said diaphragm to cause said diap­ hragm to apply an even fluid-like pressure through said air  release means to said plastic particles, heat is applied to said  plastic particles while under said fluid-like pressure and any  entrapped gases between the particles is vented by means of  the air release means.  the pressure and heat are controlled to  effect a consolidation of the plastic particles into the article.  a  second diaphragm may be used on the opposite side of said  first diaphragm and either one or both of said diaphragms  may be a sealed envelope to which fluid pressure is applied.   the plastic article produced by the method is substantially  free of all stresses.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
stress free plastic article, method of making the same and apparatus for performing said method to make said article field of the invention this invention belongs to the field of forming plastic articles including sheets from plastic particles and to welding the same under heat and pressure also utilizing plastic powders. previous known methods of forming plastic articles including sheets from plastic particles have experienced a variety of difficulties. many plastics are difficult or impossible to mold into articles or to form into sheets, particularly, thin sheets called films. also, it is difficult to weld many plastic sheets by conventional electronic heating or other "thermowelding" techniques without having the joint exhibit a thickness greater than the thickness of the sheet. further, such techniques for welding have generally been applicable only to certain relatively thin materials such as films. for example, the homopolymer chlorotrifluoroethylene may be thermowelded only in very thin thicknesses. in such conventional welding techniques the resulting joints frequently exhibit varying strengths and degradation of the plastic along the weld due to excessive or unequal heating, or unequal pressure. still further, such conventional welding techniques frequently result in holes through the material at or adjacent the weld either during formation or subsequently during use which phenomenon is sometimes referred to as "holing through". when the sheet material to be welded has variable thicknesses these difficulties in conven- tional welding techniques are compounded even when the thickness variation is slight. nor do the conventional welding systems produce a weld over the entire width of the overlapped edges. as a result, the unwelded portions of the edges are subject to movement in use by wind or other air currents which deteriorate the weld, often to the point where the weld separates previous efforts to overcome these problems whizz conventional welding by using wider welded areas (more overlap) greatly reduces the speed of joining which is detrimental commercially. much of what has been said above with respect to welding also applies to the forming of shaped articles including sheets from plastic particles. still further, when forming plastic articles or sheets fror plastic particles by the use of conventional methods the articles or sheets produced have stresses or strains built into them by the method of formation except in those instances where the plastic being used is a monomer or a liquid-like material or are forded by solvent or casting methods such as those method¯ using organosols or plastisols for the production of the article or the sheet. solvent methods of forma tion are expensive, generally slow, and are not applicable to a great many plastic resins. polymers having millions molecular weight, for example, have proven very difficult to form into articles or sheets by many conventional techniques and, indeed, it is practically impossible to produce large thin sheets from such millions molecular weight polymers directly from the plastic particles. while certain plastics have been formed into articles, particularly sheets, that are nearly stress or strain free by the solvent or liquid phase
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
   claims:       1. in a method of making a plastic article from finely divided plastic particles utilizing heat and pressure the improvement comprising applying a quantity of said plastic particles to a first member; disposing a flexible diaphragm in opposed relationship to said first member with said plastic particles therebetween; disposing between said plastic particles and said diaphragm a microporous air release means; positioning said diaphragm against said air release means with said air release means against said plastic particles; applying a fluid-like pressure to said diaphragm to cause said   diaphragm    to apply an even fluid-like pressure on said plastic particles through said air release means; applying heat to the plastic particles while they are under said   fluid-like    pressure;  venting entrapped gases through   saiåa    air release means from between said particles while the latter are being heated and pressed with said fluidlike pressure; controlling the degree of pressure and heat applied to said plastic particles to achieve sufficient pressure and heat to cause the particles to consolidate and form a plastic article.    2. the method of claim 1 in which said flexible diaphragm is one face of a sealed envelope.      3. the method of claim 1 including a   second    flexible diaphragm positined in opposition to said first flexible diaphragm with said microporous air release means and said plastic particles therebetween and in which fluid-like pressure is applied to both of said diaphragms.    4. the method of claim 3 in which said   dieu    phragms are sealed together and said   fluidw    pressure is applied by applying a partial vacuum between   said    diaphragms.    5. the method of claim 3 in which both of said diaphragms, are the front face of sealed envelopes and in which said fluid-like pressure is applied by pressurizing a fluid in said envelopes.    6. the method of any preceeding claim in   which    said microporous air release means comprises a poly   tetrafluoroethylene    coated fiberglass fabric positioned adjacent to said plastic particles and a wire screen positioned between said fabric and the first of said diaphragms.    7. the method of any one claims 1 through 5 in which said air release means is a polytetrafluoroethylene coated wire screen.      8. the method of claim 1 in which said method is used to weld two sheets of plastic together by placing said plastic particles between adjacent edges of said sheets and processing said sheet edges and plastic particles as in claim 1.    9. the method of claim 8 in which the adjacent edges of said sheets are separated apart with the plastic particles extending therebetween in a relationship to produce a butt weld.    10. the method of claim 8 in which the adjacent edges of said sheets overlap with the plastic particles therebetween whereby an overlapped weld is produced.    11. the method of claim 1 in which said plastic particles are of two different plastics, the plastic particles of one of said plastics being arranged to produce a sheet by said method, the plastic particles of the other of said plastics being arranged to produce a second sheet by said method   simuiltaneously    with the formation of said first mentioned sheet, and the plastic particles of said first and other plastics meeting each other whereby two sheets are produced simultaneously with joining said sheets together.      12. the method of claim 1 including disposing a pre-existing sheet of plastic adjacent to said plastic particles to produce a second sheet from said plastic particles which second sheet is joined to said first mentioned sheet during formation of said second sheet by processing in accordance with the method of claim   1.         13    the method of one of claims 3, 4, or 5 in which said first member includes a polished glass sheet   portioned    between said diaphragms whereby one face of said article exhibits the polished surface of said   glass    sheet, applying a reflective silver layer to said polished surface of said article, applying a transparent plastic coating over said reflective layer,   ano    curing said transparent plastic coating whereby a mirror is produced.    14   ffi    polymeric plastic article, said article having been produced directly from the powdered plastic of said polymer, and said article being   substantrally    stress free.      15    the polymeric plastic article of claim 14 in which said polymer is of millions molecular weight.    16. the polymeric plastic article of claim 14 in which said polymer is a millions molecular weight polyethylene.      17. an apparatus fir making a plastic article from finely divided plastic particles utilizing heat and pressure which apparatus includes a pair of members movable relative to each other characterized in that: one of said members includes a flexible diaphragm. positioned in opposed relationship to the other of said members; a microporous air release means positioned between said diaphragm and said other member; means for applying a fluid-like pressure to said diaphragm to cause said diaphragm to apply an even fluid-like pressure through said air release means to plastic particles positioned on said other member; and means for heating at least one of said members.    18. the apparatus of claim 17 in which said flexible diaphragm is one face of a sealed envelope.    19. the apparatus of claim 17 in which said other member includes a second flexible diaphragm and means for applying fluid-like pressure to both of said   diaphragms.       20. the apparatus of claim 19 in which sealing means is provided at edges of at least one of said diaphragms whereby said diaphragms may be sealed together when said members are moved to a position adjacent each other; and said means for applying a fluid-like pressure applies a partial vacuum to the chamber defined by said sealing means and said diaphragms.       21. the apparatus of claim   19    in which both of said diaphragms are the front face of sealed envelopes and in which said means for applying a fluid-like pressure applies pressure to both of said envelopes   hy    pressurizing a fluid in said envelopes.    22. the apparatus of any one of claims 17   thro    21 in which said microporous air release means com- prises a polytetrafluoroethylene coated fiberglass fabric and a wire screen positioned between said fabric and the first of said diaphragms.      23.    the apparatus of any one of claims 17 through 21 in which said air release means is a polytetrafluoroethylene coated wire screen.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
