<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0013148
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800709
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
H02G-3/02 H02G-3/08 H02G-3/06 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
a method of sealing conduits and a kit for use in such method.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
british insulated callendersgb<sep>bicc limited<sep>bicc limited21, bloomsbury streetlondon, wc1b 3qngb<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
hutchison john blundellgb<sep>hutchison, john blundell<sep>hutchison, john blundellhillside cottage town wellkingsley, cheshiregb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a conduit end is sealed around one or more than one  insulated conductor by using a chamber (4) having a  peripheral wall, a base with an opening through it com­ municating with the conduit (2) and an opening opposite the  base.  the conductor(s) (3) extend through both openings; a  pre-formed annular body of a setting resin composition (8) is  inserted while in a pasty or viscous condition into the  chamber to ancircle the conductor or conductors.  axial pres­ sure is then applied to the still pasty or viscous annular body  to cause it to flow and form a sealing body in peripherally  continous contact with the chamber and with the, or each,  insulated conductor, after which the resin composition sets.  a  kit for use in the method is also claimed 
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
sealing conduits this invention relates t the sealing of the ens of conduits through which electric conductors pass, more especially (though not exclusively) in flame-proof electrica equipment by the 'end' of a conduit is meant the end of individual conduit length and not necessarily the end cf the entire run of the conduit, and by 'sealing' is meant forming a seal that is pressure-tight or flame-proof or both. in the specification of our uk patent application (accepted) 1524684 we have described a method of terminating an electric cable or conduit on electrical apparatus in which (1) the cable or conduit end is prepared with the individual conductors projecting forwardly from an end of a surrounding protective layer of the cable or from the conduit end as the case may be; (2) the cable or conduit is secured in a first gland member, having a passage through which the cable or conduit passes and which has an enlarged section at its forward end, with the end of the protective la7er or conduit in the enlarged section; ; (3) a quantity of hardenable insulatin compound is applied, in a pasty or viscous condition, so as to fill and stand proud of the enlarged section of the passage in the first gland member and to adhere to the parts of the cable or conduit and conductors within it; (4) a second gland member, having a passage with an enlarged section at its rear end, is assembled with the first gland member so as to enclose the insulating compound to an extent sufficient to allow generation of pressure in the compound; ; (5) the first and second gland members are drawn together before the insulating compound has hardened so as to press the compound into,firm contact with t cable; end (6) the termination is secured to the electrical apparatus by mechanically engaging at least one of the gland members; the preset invention provides n related method cf and a kit for sealing a conduit end which is more convenient and more reliable when (as is usually the case) the crosssectional area of tile conduit is considerably larger than the total cross-sectional area of the insulated conductor(s). in accordance with one aspect of the invention, -a method of sealing a conduit end around one or more than one insulated conductor comprises: providing p chamber having a peripheral wall, a base with an opening througn it communicating with the conduit; and an opening opposite the base, the conductor, or all the conductors, extending through both openings; preforming an annular body of a setting resin composition in a pasty or viscous condition and inserting it in that condition into the chamber to encircle the conductor or conductors; and applying axial pressure to the still pasty or viscous annular body to cause it to flow and form a sealing body in peripherally continuous contact with the chamber ana with the, or each, insulated conductor; and allowing or causing the resin composition to set. in so cases the chamber
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims   1. a method of sealing a conduit end around one or more than one insulated conductor comprising:   providir >     a chamber having a peripheral wall, a base with an   open-.n    through it communicating with the conduit, and an opening opposite the base, the conductor, or all the conductors, extending through both openings; inserting a setting resin composition in a pasty or viscous condition into the chamber; and applying axial pressure to the still pasty or viscous composition to cause it to flow and form a sealing body in peripherally continuous contact with the chamber and with the, or each, insulated conductor; and allowing or causing the resin composition to   set;  obaracter-    ised in that the resin composition is inserted into the chamber in a form comprising a preformed annular body which encircles the conductor or conductors.   2. a method as claimed in claim 1 comprising sealing round more than one insulated conductor characterised in that the form of the resin composition also includes a pellet that is inserted between the conductors in the chamber.   3. a method according to claim 2, characterised in that the pellet is inserted in the chamber before the preformed annular body.   4. a method according to any one of claims 1-3, characterised in that the annular body is preformed in or on a carrier prior to insertion of the body into the chamber.   5. a method according to claim 4, characterised in that  the carrier comprises a part lining the bore of the resin body and that part of the carrier is removed before or during application of axial pressure.   6.   a.    method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims in which the chamber includes an intermediate member which the resin contacts and an outer member in flameproof engagement with the intermediate member characterised in   t:at    annular faces on the intermediate member and the outer member are so shaped that they form between them a path of tortuous configuration, such path forming all or part of the required length of the flameproof path between the members.   7. a method as claimed in claim 6 in which the tortuous path is formed by providing on each annular surface a plurality of upstanding, spaced, concentric endless ribs defining between them a plurality of spaced, concentric endless troughs, ribs on each of said annular surfaces entering troughs in the other of said annular surfaces.    8. a method as claimed in claim 6 characterised in that the tortuous path is formed by making each annular surface of a stepped configuration comprising a plurality of spaced, concentric endless steps.   9. a kit for sealing a conduit end around one or more than one insulated conductor comprising: a chamber having a peripheral wall, a base with an opening through it for communicating with the conduit and an opening opposite the base; a supply of a setting resin compound; and means for applying pressure to the resin compound when in the chamber to cause it to flow and to produce a sealing body in peripherally continuous contact with the chamber and with the, or each, insulated conductor; characterised by including a carrier for holding a preformed annular body of the compound in a pasty or viscous condition during insertion into the chamber.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
