<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0006968
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800123
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
C08F-4/60 C08F-4/00 C08F-10/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
a method for producing high molecular weight stereoregular polymers in the presence of a modified catalyst system.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
conoco incus<sep>conoco phillips company<sep>conoco inc.1000 south pine street p.o. box 1267ponca city oklahoma 74603 us<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
mack mark philip us <sep>mack, mark philip<sep>mack, mark philip301 w. hartford apt. 311ponca city oklahoma 74601us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
an improved method for polymerizing alpha-olefins  under low pressure in the presence of a modified ziegler-­ natta catalyst comprising a mixture of an organo-aluminum  compound and a compound of a transition metal of groups  iv-b, v-b, vi-b and vii-b of the periodic table, together with a  quantity of groups i-a and ii-a organophosphide in an  amount of from about . 01 to about . 15 moles bases upon the  amount of organo-aluminum compounds present.  catalysts  of the instant invention provide highly isotactic polymers.  the  amount of metal organophosphide added is critical to obtain­ ing these objectives.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
this .' nvention relates to a method fcr producing high molecular wight stereoregular polymers more particularly, this invention relates te a modified catalyst system for producing high molecular weight stereoregular isotactic polymers using zie±ler-natta catalysts and a small amount of group i-a andor ii-a organop5gsphides. two component systems for polymerizing a olefins for the production of polymers comprising of organo aluminum compounds and transition metal salts and halides are known as described in u.s. patent 3,113,115 issued to ziegler et al. such catalysts have become well-knowsn generally as ziegler-natta catalyst systems. a variety of compounds have been identified as effective modifiers te the conventional system described in the referenced patent. many patents are directed toward processes for improving the stereospecificity of the polymerization of alpha-olefins, particularly butene, when using the catalysts of the ziegler-natta type. for example, british patent 1,421,217 describes the use of hydrazine derivatives such as l,l-dimethylhydrazine to increase stereospecificity. u.s. patent 3,318,860 teaches a third component comprising of a nitrogen-containing lewis base and then treating the modified ziegler-natta catalyst so obtained with hydrogen. this modification of the catalyst system is taught to produce isotactic polymers having both reduced molecular weight and a high degree of stereoregularity. however, for many applications of polymers obtained using these systems, a high molecular weight is greatly desired. for example, when used for reducing the flow of liquids through pipelines, such polymers are commonly called drag reducing agents, and of necessity are 6f high molecular weight in order to be effective as drag reducers. thus it is knowal that alpha-olefins such as propylene and l-butene can be converted to highly linear crystalline polymers at low temperatures using a ziegler-natta catalyst. crystalline polymers can be produced using such systems. the crystallinity of the polymer obtained is due to the arrangement cf the substituents along a polymer backbone. in general, isotactic polymers have a strictly regular arrangement of substituents; yndiotactic polymers have a regularly alterrating patter@ ctl substituents; atactic polymers have a completely at random pattern of substituents. the nlgn''' molecular weight isotactic polymers are commercially useful. however, the basic ziegler-natta catalyst, compr-ising of an organo-metallic complex generated through the reaction of a transition metal compound such as titanium trichloride with an organo-aluminum compound such as aluminum triethyl, is not free from disadvantages. in addition, the catalysts residues must be removed from the polymers since these substances have a detrimental influence on polymer properties such as color and light stability. thus, modifications such as described above have been made to the basic catalyst. another disadvantage of the basic ziegler-natta catalyst is the low degree of tacticity. the degree of tacticity is a measure of the isotactic index, which is defined as the weight of the polymer insoluble in boiling diethylether. highly stereoregular or isotactic polymers are to be greatly desired toward the preparation of film, pipe, packaging, lenses, and other useful articles of commerce other references, such as u.s. patent 3,476,730, hereby incorporated by reference, teach a process-of polymerization of olefins in the presence
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 1. a method for polymerizing a-mono olefins to isotactic high molecular weight polymers comprising carrying out the polymerization in the presence of a catalyst comprising dialkylaluminum halide, titanium chloride, and groups i-a and/or   ii-a    metal organophosphides, wherein the metal organophosphide is present in the catalyst in amounts of from about .01 to about .15 moles per mole of dialkylaluminum halide.    2. a method as described in claim 1 wherein the metal organophosphide is a metal diphenylphosphide.    3. a method as described in claim 1 wherein the dialkylaluminum halide is diethylaluminum chloride and wherein the metal diphenylphosphide of lithium diphenylphosphide.    4. a method as described in claim i wherein the reaction is carried out at a temperature of from about   -100c    to about 2500c and a pressure of from about ambient to about 50 atmospheres.    5. a method for increasing the molecular weight of polymers produced from alpha olefins using transition metal halides and organometallic alkylating agents, comprising adding organometallic phosphides to the catalyst prior to carrying out the polymerization in amounts from about .01 to about .5 moles per mole of dialkylaluminum chloride.    6. a method as described in claim 5 wherein the transition metal halide is violet titanium trichloride, the organometallic phosphide is lithium diphenylphosphide, and the organometallic alkylating agent is diethylaluminum chloride.    7. a method as described in claim 6 wherein the polymer is produced using alpha olefins selected from the group consisting of propylene, butene-l, octene-l, and 4methyl-l-pentene.       8. a method for producing highly isotactic polyolefin polymers having low molecular weight comprising polymerizing olefins in the presence of a catalyst   comprising dialkyl-    aluminum halide, titanium 'chloride, and group i-a and/or   li-a    metal organophosphides; wherein the metal organophosphide is present in the catalyst in amounts of from about .01 to about .15 moles per unit of dialkyl aluminum halide and where sufficient hydrogen is added to the polymerization to reduce molecular weight to the desired level.    9. a method as described in claim 8 wherein the metal organophosphide is a group i-a metal   diphenylphosphine     10. a method as described in claim 9 wherein the dialkyl aluminum halide is diethyl aluminum chloride and the metal diphenylphosphide is lithium diphenylphosphide.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
