<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0009986
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800416
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B63C-1/00 E21B-15/02 E02B-1/00 E02B-17/00 B63C-1/02 B63C-7/00 B63B-35/44 E21B-15/00 B63C-7/14 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
support structure for use in water.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
eadie graeme<sep>eadie, graeme<sep>eadie, graeme59 elliott avenuecarnegie, 3163, victoriaau<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
eadie graeme<sep>eadie, graeme<sep>eadie, graeme59 elliott avenuecarnegie, 3163, victoriaau<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
the invention relates to a support structure for use in  liquid.  in particular there is described a support structure  13 in water comprising a pipe matrix 10 having coolant or  refrigerant pumped therethrough to freeze the water into a  solid block.  the matrix may be planar or three dimensional  and the ice structure may be floating or may be supported  on the floor of an ocean river or other water confinement.   the structure may be used as a floating dock, oil drilling  platform, temporary bridge or for any other derived pur­ pose.  there is also described a method for temporarily repair­ ing a fracture or hole in a ship's hull, dam or other liquid  barrier by arranging a pipe matrix over the fracture or hole  and pumping coolant or refrigerant through said pipe mat­ rix to freeze the liquid and plug the fracture or hole.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
support structure for use in water the present invention relates to a support structure for use in liquid and in particular to a support structure formed essentially by freezing the liquid. in a more preferred form the invention relates to a structure for use in water to provide for example, an off-shore drilling platform, temporary bridge structure, floating work platform or recreation platform. the structure may be a floating structure which is partly or fully submerged or may be adapted to bear on the floor of the sea, river, lake or the like in a partly or fully submerged condition. the structure may also be used to repair fractures or holes occurring in vessels or containers in liquid by freezing the liquid in the vicinity of the hole. for example, a hole in the hull of a ship or in a dam may be repaired using a structure according to the invention. the invention also provides a method of constructing a support structure of the aforementioned kind. conventionally off-shore: drilling or mining structures are intricate platform structures formed from metal and/or concrete. the considerable depths of water sometimes encountered at prospective drilling or mining sites prohibits the use of such conventional structures on mechanical and/or economical grounds. in any case the cost of building the conventional structures is very high and maintenance costs are also very high due to a number of factors including primarily, corrosion. the high initial costs stem from the fact that most of the fabrication occurs on-shore due to the intricate work involved and the finished or partly finished structure is towed to the site. the towing process is energy intensive and expensive and involves a complex launching operation prior to towing and a complex anchoring process after towing, further adding'significantly to the cost involved. accordingly it is one object of this invention to provide a support structure adapted to overcome or at least reduce one or more of the aforementioned problems of offshore drilling structures as well as providing a support structure which may be adapted to many other uses. it is another object of the invention to provide an improved method of constructing a support structure in water. thus the invention provides a support structure for use in liquid comprising a pipe arrangement adapted for location in said liquid, means for circulating coolant or refrigerant through said pipe arrangement causing said liquid to freeze in the vicinity of said pipe arrangement to form and maintain a frozen liquid support structure substantially in the form of a solid block around said pipe arrangement. in another form the invention provides a method of constructing a support structure in liquid, characterized in that said method includes the steps of forming an arrangement of pipes into a matrix, and passing coolant or refrigerant through said, pipes to cause said liquid to freeze in the vicinity of said matrix so as to form and maintain a frozen liquid support structure substantially in the form of a solid block around
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
   claiiska      1. a support structure for use in liquid comprising   8    pipe   a--angement      (10)    adapted for location in said liquid, characterized in that, means are provided for circulating coolant or refrigerant through said pipe arrangement (10) causing said liquid to freeze in the vicinity of said pipe arrangement to form and maintain a frozen liquid support structure (13) substantially in the form of a solid block around said pipe arrangement.   2. a support structure as defined in claim 1 characterized in that said liquid is water and said pipe arrangement is a grid arrangement (10) adapted, to provide an ice structure (13) having a working platform above the level of said water, said ice structure enclosing and supporting at least part of said grid arrangement.   3. a support structure as defined in claim 1 characterized in that said liquid is water and said pipe arrangement is adapted for insertion within a hole which has occurred in a dam, or ships' hull or other water   barrier    so as to form a support structure of ice in the form of a plug capable of preventing the passage of water through said water barrier.   4. a support structure as defined in   claim    2 characterized in that said support structure is a floating structure.   5. a method of constructing a support structure in liquid, characterized in that said method   includes    the steps of forming an arrangement of pipes into a matrix (10), and passing coolant or refrigerant through said pipes to cause said liquid to freeze in the vicinity of said matrix so as to form and maintain a frozen liquid support structure ;(13) substantially in the form of a solid block around said pipe arrangement.   6.   a    method according to claim 5 wherein said liquid is water, characterized in that said support structure is formed in situ and provides an ice structure having a working platform above the level of said water, said ice structure enclosing and supporting at least part of said pipe arrangement.     7. a method according to claim 6 characterized in that said ice structure is a floating structure and one or more cavities (16) are provided in the underside of said ice each cavity having a vent or access tube (18) extending to the top surface or platform of said structure, said cavities being adapted for storing liquid or gaseous   proddcts    or being adapted to be pressurized in order to improve the buoyancy of said structure.   8. a method according to claim 7 characterized in that one or more vertical holes (15) are provided to extend entirely through said structure to facilitate underwater drilling operations.   9. a method according to claim 8 characterized in that each said cavity (16) and vertical hole   (15),    is provided by arranging said matrix (10) to define same in a manner whereby ice formation does not occur in the area thereof.   10. a method according. to claim 8 characterized in that vertical hole (15) is provided by a drilling operation after formation of said ice structure.   11. a method according to claim 10 characterized in that a thermal insulation layer (17) is provided in each said cavity (16) to provide insulation between any fluid in said cavity and said ice structure.   12. a method according to claim 11 characterized in that said.pipe matrix (10) is shaped to define one or more internal chambers and connecting channels for accommodation and movement of personnel or for storage of equipment.   13. a method of temporarily repairing fractures or holes in liquid retaining vessels, flotation vessels, or liquid retaining walls characterized in that said method includes the steps of arranging a planar pipe matrix (10) in or over said fracture or hole, and passing coolant or refrigerant through said pipe matrix to cause said liquid to freeze in the vicinity of said matrix so as to form and maintain a frozen liquid support structure substantially in the form of a planar solid block around said pipe matrix and in a manner blocking said fracture or hole from the passage of said liquid.      14. a method according to claim 12 characterized in that exhaust gases from a refrigeration system for pumping said coolant or refrigerant through said pipe matrix are recycled into said cavities to act as buoyancy gases.   15. a method according to claim 6 characterized in that said matrix is a three dimensional matrix substantially in the form of a cuboid.   16. a method according to claim 6 characterized in that said matrix consists essentially of a first planar matrix forming a top surface, and further downwardly extending matrices which depend from adjacent the respective edges of said first matrix to define sides enclosing a hollow space wherein liquid is enclosed after an initial freezing process such that said enclosed liquid ultimately freezes.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
