<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0006223
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800109
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
C07D-209/28 C07D-209/00 A61K-31/403 A61K-31/405 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
crystalline sodium and potassium indomethacin and their trihydrates, process for preparing and pharmaceutical compositions containing the same.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
merck & co incus<sep>merck & co., inc.<sep>merck &amp; co., inc.126, east lincoln avenue p.o. box 2000 rahway new jersey 07065-0900 us <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
ryan james arthurus<sep>ryan, james arthur<sep>ryan, james arthur72 scarlet oak drivedoylestown, pa. 18901us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
sodium and potassium 1-p-chlorobenzoyl-2-methyl-5-­ methoxy-3-indolyl acetate and their trihydrates are stable  crystalline materials prepared by crystallization from wa­ ter and acetone and are useful in facilitating the prepa­ ration of ophthalmic, parenteral and other formulations  of indomethacin for treatment of inflammatory conditions.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
title of the invention crystalline sodium and potassium indomethacin and their trihydrates, process for preparing and pharma ceutical compositions containing the same background of the invention field of the invention the present invention is concerned with crystalline sodium and potassium l-p-chlorobenzoyl2-methyl-5-methoxy-3-indolyl acetate and their trihydrates and improved pharmaceutical compositions prepared therefrom. description of the prior art the compound l-p-chlorobenzoyl-2-methyl5-methoxy-3-indolyl acetic acid is a potent nonsteriodal anti-inflammatory agent described in u.s. patent no. 3,161,654. while the alkali metal, particularly sodium and potassium salts of the acid are also mentioned, they are not described as being stable, crystalline materials, and it is only recited that the salts may be obtained by treatment of the free acid with base under mild conditions. as is shown further below, a stable crystalline material is obtained only with the application of carefully controlled conditions to the preparation of the sodium, potassium and trihydrate salts. summary of the invention the treatment of inflammation by chemotherapeutic agents has advanced a great distance in the last three decades, with the development of many new chemotherapeutic agents such as the steriods, followed by a number of non-steriodal agents. one of these, a potent drug known as indomethacin, is l-pchlorobenzoyl-2-methyl-5-methoxy-3-indolyl acetic acid. this drug may be administered by way of a number of different formulation types, depending upon the particular inflammatory condition which it is desired to treat. however, most such formulations would be improved, and their preparation facilitated, by the use therein of a stable, crysvalline, readily-dissolved salt of indomethacin acid. in the past, the problem of the insolubility of indomethacin acid has been overcome simply by preparing tablets from fine particles, a suspension formulation, or an organic solvent solution of the indomethacin. where a sodium or potassium salt of indomethacin has been required, indomethacin acid has been treated with aqueous alkali and the reaction mixture has simply been lyophilized to a solid. however, a number of difficulties have been experienced in preparing such lyophilized sodium and potassium indomethacin salts. slow and incomplete dissolution of indomethacin even with the aid of a surfactant requires high ph's with resulting degradation caused by hydrolysis cleavage of the l-p-chlorobenzoyl group. the problems previously encountered with insoluble, hard-to-dissolve, and lyophilized-salts of indomethacin have been overcome by the present invention whereby there is provided readily dis solved, stable, crystalline sodium and potassium indomethacin and their trihydrates. in accordance with the method of the present invention, the sodium or potassium trihydrate salt of indomethacin is first prepared by reacting indomethacin acid with sodium or potassium hydroxide, carbonate, or c14 alcoholate, for example ethylate, in an aqueous iediiin. the molar ratio of indomethacin acid to sodium or potassium base is 1:0.90 to 0.99 and the ph of the reaction mixture is from 8.0 to 8.5. the ph of the reaction mixture should not exceed 8.5. the temperature of the reaction mixture is preferably maintained at from 10 to 100c in order to avoid hydrolysis cleavage of the l-p-chlorobenzoyl group. the sodium or potassium base as an aqueous
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
what is claimed is:    1. a readily dissolved, stable, crystalline salt of l-p-chlorobenzoyl-2-methyl-5-methoxy-3indolyl acetic acid selected from the sodium, potassium, sodium trihydrate, or potassium trihydrate salts thereof.    2. readily dissolved, stable, crystalline sodium l-p-chlorobenzoyl-2-methyl-5-methoxy-3indolyl acetate trihydrate.    3. a pharmaceutical composition for use in treating inflammatory conditions comprising as active ingredient an effective amount of a readily dissolved, stable, crystalline salt of 1-p-chlorobenzoyl-2-methyl5-methoxy-3-indolyl acetic acid selected from the sodium, potassium, sodium trihydrate, or potassium trihydrate salts thereof, and a non-toxic, pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.    4. a pharmaceutical composition for use in treating inflammatory conditions comprising as active ingredient an effective amount of readily dissolved, stable, crystalline sodium l-p-chlorobenzoyl- 2-methyl5-methoxy-3-indolyl acetate trihydrate and a nontoxic, pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.    5. a method of preparing a readily dissolved, stable, crystalline salt of l-p-chloropbenzoyl2-methyl-5-methoxy-3-indolyl acetic acid selected from the sodium and potassium salts thereof, comprising the steps of    (a) reacting l-p-chlorobenzoyl-2-methyl5-methoxy-3-indolylacetic acid with sodium or potassium hydroxide, carbonate, hydrogen carbonate, or   c14    alcoholate in an aqueous medium at a ph of from 8.0 to 8.5;  (b) pouring the reaction mixture of step (a) above into acetone;  (c) recovering the sodium or potassium   l-p-chlorobenzoyl-2-methyl-5-methoxy-3-indolyl    acetate trihydrate which crystallizes out from the reaction mixture of step (b); and  (d) drying the trihydrate recovered in step (c) to form the sodium or potassium l-p-chlorobenzoyl-2-methyl-5-methoxy-3-indolyl acetate.    6. the method of claim 5 wherein the molar ratio of l-p-chlorobenzoyl-2-methyl-5-methoxy-3indolyl-acetic acid to sodium or potassium base is 1:0.90 to 0.99.    7. the method of claim 5 wherein the temperature of the reaction mixture in steps (a) and (b) is from 10 to   100c.       8. a method of preparing a readily dissolved, stable, crystalline salt of l-p-chlorobenzoyl-2-methyl5-methoxy-3-indolyl acetic acid selected from the sodium trihydrate and potassium trihydrate salts thereof, comprising the steps of  (a) reacting   l-p-chlorobenzoyl-2-methyl- 5-    methoxy-3-indolylacetic acid with sodium or potassium hydroxide, carbonate, hydrogen carbonate, or   c14    alcoholate in an aqueous medium at a ph of from 8.0 to 8.5;    (b) pouring the reaction mixture of step (a) above into acetone; and  (c) recovering the sodium or potassium 1   p-chlorobenzoyl-2-methyl-5-methoxy-3-indolyl    acetate trihydrate which crystallizes out from the reaction mixture of step (b).     9. the method of claim 8 wherein the molar ratio of l-p-chlorobenzoyl-2-methyl-5-methoxy-3indolyl-acetic acid to sodium or potassium base is 1:0.90 to 0.99.    10. the method of claim 8 wherein the temperature of the reaction in steps (a) and (b) is from 10 to   100c.     
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
