<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0011360
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800528
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
F02M-29/06 <main>F02M-35/10</main> F02M-33/00 F02M-33/06 F02M-29/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
fuel/air mixing device for engines.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
automotive eng assus<sep>automotive engine associates<sep>automotive engine associates301 south blount streetmadison wisconsin 53703us<sep>automotive engine associates<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
kriesel kenneth wayne<sep>showalter merle robert<sep>siewert charles lee<sep>kriesel, kenneth wayne<sep>showalter, merle robert<sep>siewert, charles lee<sep>kriesel, kenneth wayne731 brandic roadmadison, wisconsin 53714us <sep>showalter, merle robert301 south blount streetmadison, wisconsin 53703 us  <sep>siewert, charles lee2630 hoard streetmadison wisconsin 53714us<sep>kriesel, kenneth wayne <sep>showalter, merle robert<sep>siewert, charles lee  <sep>kriesel, kenneth wayne731 brandic roadmadison, wisconsin 53714us<sep>showalter, merle robert301 south blount streetmadison, wisconsin 53703us<sep>siewert, charles lee2630 hoard streetmadison wisconsin 53714us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a vortex fuel air mixer is positioned between the air  throttle (4) and the intake manifold of an engine.  part (20,22)  of the expansion flow velocity past the air throttle (4) flows  tangentially into the vortex chamber (18) of the mixer, pro­ viding angular momentum which drives the flow into a vorti­ cal pattern.  the flow streamlines within the vortical flow  form into a generally irrotational flow pattern which swirls  from the outside wall of the vortex chamber (18) inwardly to  a central vortex chamber outlet (32).  this outlet feeds the  engine intake manifold.  centrifugal forces in the swirling  flow fling fuel droplets to the outside wall of the vortex  chamber (18) (in the manner of a cyclone scrubber).  this  liquid fuel must evaporate in order to leave the vortex  chamber.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
background and objects the time and space available for fuel air mixing in an internal combustion engine is limited, and "homogeneous charge" engines do not burn really homogeneous mixtures. the incompleteness of mixing, and the unsteadiness of air fuel ratio delivery to the cylinders under transient response, degrade engine performance significantly from what would be possible with quicker transient response and more homogeneous mixing. because the physics of mixing processes is complicated, and because mixing states are difficult to measure experimentally, the great importance of mixing in engines is not widely understood. it is the purpose of the present invention to use structured turbulent- flows to mix fuel and air in an organized way involving much higher mixing rates than have previously been possible. the device is characterized by excellent transient response and much more homogeneous fuel air mixtures than have previously been practically available. to understand the technical problems which the current invention has solved, a discussion of conventional engine mixing processes is appropriate. it is characteristic of present day carburetor and intake manifold systems that the fuel which passes the carburetor throttle is rapidly separated from the air and deposited downstream of the carburetor at the first turn. at this first turn is generally locate an exhaust-heated hot spot. however, only a part of the fuel can evaporate on this hot spot surface. the rest of the fuel is not evaporated at the hot spot and deposits on manifold,yas¯ downstream. once this fuel is deposited, it proceeds to the individual cylinders relatively slowly and somewhat unevenly. intake manifolds are carefully designed with contours on the manifold floor to try to distribute the liquid fuel evenly between cylinders. even so, it is usually impossible to get very tight cylinder-to-cylinder distribution over all of the relevant speeds, under steady-state conditions of engine speed and load. fuel-air proportioning is worse under transient conditions. the air velocity in manifold passages can be a substantial fraction of the speed of sound, but the fuel liquid film velocity is generally less than a tenth of the air velocity. consequently, if an element of fuel and an element of air both leave the carburetor throttle at the same time, the fuel takes much longer to reach the cylinders than the air. on accelerations the mixture delivered to the cylinders therefore tends to shift lean. acceleration enrichment arrangements must therefore be employed. the greater the acceleration enrichment, the greater the emission penalty involved. the two-phase flow situation in a conventional intake manifold is quite involved. it is practically impossible to get the transient characteristics and cylinder-to-cylinder distribution characteristics that are desirable, even with very laborious development work in each intake manifold design because of the two phase flow relationships. the inability of conventional carburetor-intake manifold system to perform well with respect to cylinder-to-cylinder and transient response characteristics has been the main motivation for the development o very expensive muvlti- ¯ cylinder fuel injection systems. the need for fast transient response and tight cylinder-to-cylinder distribution becomes greater
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
what is claimed is:      1.    a mixing device for homogenizing and vaporizing a fuel-air mixture from a fuel-air metering means of internal combustion engine for delivery to the intake manifol of said engine, wherein the fuel-air metering means   ha    airflow passage with a variable restriction therein, said mixing device comprising a mixer housing having an inlet   and    an outlet, said inlet being adapted for connection to the discharge side of the airflow passage of the fuel-air meter- ing means,  whereby said discharge passage portion of said fuel-air metering means airflow passage is adapted so that   a    flow having a velocity a substantial fraction of the   isentrop    velocity corresponding to the pressure drop across said fuelair metering means variable restriction is delivered into said housing in a direction such that said flow has high angular momentum with respect to the outlet, said fuel-air metering means controlling fuel flow into the mixer   housings    said housing being shaped'so as to conserve at least a portion of said angular momentum of flow whereby a vortex rotation about the outlet is formed so that the outlet is the sink of the vortex, said outlet being adapted to be connected to the intake manifold,  ,and means for heating the housing to vaporize the liquid fuel which is deposited thereon by the centrifuging effect of the vortex and the turbulence of the flow.        ±0    the invention as set forth in claim 1 and wherein the means for heating the housing comprises a plurality of fins attached   ther-to,    and means for directing hot exhaust gases over the fins to heat same.    3. the   invention    as set forth in claim 1 and   whereir'    means are provided in the housing outlet to reduce the swirl of the flow passing through said outlet.    4. the invention as set forth in claim 1 and wherein heating means are provided to add internal energy to the air-fuel mixture prior to introduction into the mixer housing.    5. the invention as set forth in claim 1 and wherein the means for heating the housing include electrical resistance means.    6. a mixing device for homogenizing and vaporizing a fuel-air mixture from a fuel-air metering means of an internal   combustion    engine for delivery to the intake manifold of said engine, said fuel-air metering means having a discharge air passage with a conformingly shaped variable throttle restriction therein for controlling flow of the air to the inlet of the housing whereby the air will pass by the throttle restriction as a relatively high velocity stream and attach to a wall of the discharge passage beneath the throttle restriction in the manner of a "coanda" wall attached stream, said mixing device comprising a mixer  housing having an inlet and an outlet, said inlet being adapted for connection to the discharge air passage of the fuel-air metering means,  deflector means in the inlet to cause the   ar    high velocity stream to enter the housing with high angular momentum with respect to the outlet, said   fnel-    air   netering    means controlling fuel flow into the housing, said housing being shaped so as to conserve at least a portion of said angular momentum of flow whereby a vortex rotation about the outlet is formed so that the outlet is the sink of the vortex, said outlet being adapted to be connected to the intake manifold and means for heating the housing to vaporize the liquid fuel which is deposited thereon by the centrifuging effect of the vortex.    7. the invention as set forth in claim 6 and wherein the housing inlet is related to the air discharge passage of the fuel-air metering means so that the flow past the fuel-air metering means air discharge passage attaches to a surface of the inlet where said surface is shaped so that there will be no raised element to interfere with the coanda high velocity stream proceeding from the discharge air passage of the fuel-air metering means into the housing inlet.    8. the invention as set forth in claim 7 and wherein the deflection means comprises deflectors in the housing inlet, said deflectors being positioned to receive the high velocity stream issuing from the discharge  and to direct said stream into the housing with high angular   mmentum    with respect to the housing inlet.    9. the invention as set forth in claim 6 and   wherein    the housing is provided with a plurality of spaced circular weir projections concentric with the outlet so as to stabilize   rhe    main vortical flow in the form of a generally irrotational vortex.    10. the invention as set forth in claim 6 and wherein heating means are provided for heating inlet air prior to introduction into the mixer housing.    11. a mixing device for homogenizing and vaporizing a fuel-air mixture from a fuel-air metering means of an internal combustion engine for delivery to the intake manifold of said engine, wherein the fuel-air metering means has an air flow passage with a variable restriction therein, said mixing device comprising a generally circular mixer housing including a top and a bottom connected by a peripheral outer wall, the bottom being provided with a centrally positioned outlet adapted for connection to the intake manifold of an internal combustion engine, said housing having an inlet immediately adjacent the outer wall and adapted for connection to the fuel-air metering means air flow passage which delivers air to the mixer housing through said inlet,  deflection means for directing the air from the air flow passage of the   fuel-afr    metering means at a significant velocity  tangentially with respect to the housing so that the flow within the housing is a stabilized vortex flow whereby the flow will move in a swirling manner spiralling inwardly for discharge through the outlet in the housing bottom, and means for heating the peripheral outer wall so as to evaporate the liquid fuel which is deposited thereon when the mixer is in operation.    12. the invention as set forth in claim 11 and wherein within the housing the top or bottom is provided with a plurality of spaced circular weir shaped protrusions extending inwardly therefrom and concentric with the outlet so as to stabilize the main vortical flow in a form wherein the mean flow streamlines approximate an irrotational potential flow vortex.     13. the invention as set forth in claim 11 and wherein the heating means comprises a plurality of fins connected to the outer surface of the peripheral wall, and means for directing hot exhaust gases over the fins to heat same.    14. the invention as set forth in claim 11 and wherein means are provided in the housing outlet to reduce the swirl of the flow entering said outlet.    15. the invention as set forth in claim 11 and wherein heating means are provided to increase the internal energy of the air prior to introduction into the mixer housing.    16. the invention as set forth in claim 11 and wherein the outlet is centrally positioned in the top rather   than the bottom.    17. a mixing device for   homogenizinz    and vaporizing a fuel-air mixture from a fuel-air metering means of an   internal    combustion engine for delivery to the intake manifold of said engine7   wherein    the fuel-air metering means has an air flow passage with   a-    variable restriction therein, said mixing device comprising   e    mixer housing having an inlet and outlet, said inlet being adapted for connection to the discharge side of the fuel-air metering means air flow passage,  deflector means at the inlet adapted to deflect the flow from said fuel-air metering means air flow passage so that a substantial fraction of the isentropic velocity corresponding to the pressure drop across said fuel-air metering means air flow passage variable restriction is recovered from the deflector and where said high velocity flow is deflected by said deflector means in a direction so that the flow has a high angular momentum with respect to the outlet, said housing being shaped so as to conserve at least a portion of said angular momentum of flow whereby a vortex rotation about the outlet is formed so that the outlet is the sink of the vortex, said outlet being adapted to be connected to the intake manifold,  and means for heating the housing to vaporize the liquid   ?u-et      which    is deposited thereon by the centrifuging effect of   -c    vortex.      18. the invention as set forth in claim 12 and wherein the means for heating the housing complises a plural   it    of fins attached therefo, and means for   directing      hot    exhaust gases over the fins to heat same.    19. the invention as set forth in claim 17 and wherein means are provided in the housing outlet to reduce the swirl of the flow passing through said   outlet.       20. the invention as set forth in claim 17 and wherein heating means are provided to add internal energy to the air prior to introduction into the mixing housing.    21. the invention as set forth in claim 17 and wherein the means for heating the housing includes electri- cal resistance means.    22. a mixing device for homogenizing and vaporizing a fuel-air mixture from a fuel-air metering means of an internal combustion engine for delivery to the intake   mant    fold of said engine, wherein the fuel-air metering means has an air flow passage with a variable restriction therein, said mixing device comprising a mixer housing having an inlet and an outlet, said inlet being connected to the discharge side of the air flow passage of the fuel-air metering means, deflector means at the inlet adapted to cause the flow from the air flow passage of the fuel-air metering means to enter the housing with high angular momentum about the outlet, sai fuel-air metering means controlling flow of the fuel into    aid housing,  said housing being shaped so as to conserve at least a   portion    of said angular   momentum    of flow whereby a   sr,ex    rotating about the outlet is -formed so that the outlet   i s the sink of the vortex, said outlet being adapted to be    connected to the intake manifold, means for reducing the flow resistance of   th    air-fuel mixture leaving the housing and means for   vaporizing    the liquid fuel which is deposited onto said housing surfaces by the centrifuging effect of the vortex.    23. the invention as set forth in claim 22 and wherein the means for heating the housing is arranged to maintain even temperatures.    24. the invention as set forth in claim 22 and wherein the housing has a top and bottom connected by a peripheral wall, said peripheral wall having heating means disposed so as to provide additional heat at those points on the peripheral wall where a disproportionate fraction of the fuel impacts on said wall.    25. the invention as set forth in claim 22 and wherein the housing is made of aluminum.    26. the invention as set forth in claim 25 and wherein the heating means comprises a plurality of fins integral with the housing in contact with the hot exhaust gases.    27. the invention as set forth in claim 26 and wherein the portions of the housing and fins in contact with  the hot exhaust gases are coated with an oxidation and corrosion protective material.      2,    a   ming    device tor homogenizing and   vap? s    ing a   fuel-air    mixture from a   :fuel air      retiring    means   f      l.n    internal combustion engine for delivery to the intake mani   fold of said engine, wherein the fuel--air metering means nas    an air flow passage   with ,a    variable restriction therein said mixing device comprising a mixer housing having an   inie    and an outlet, said inlet being connected to the discharge side of the fuel-air metering means air flow passage,  deflector means in the inlet adapted to cause the flow from the fuel-air metering means air flow passage to enter the housing with high angular momentum about the outlet, said fuel-air metering means controlling flow of the fuel into said housing, said housing being shaped so as to conserve at least a portion of said angular momentum of flow whereby a vortex   rotate    ting about the outlet is formed so that the outlet is the sink of the vortex, said outlet being adapted to be connected to the intake manifold, means for reducing the flow resistance of the air-fuel mixture leaving the housing and means for vaporizing the liquid fuel which is deposited onto said housing surfaces by the centrifuging effect of the vortex.    29. the invention as set forth in claim 28 and wherein the means for reducing the flow resistance of the air-fuel mixture leaving the housing is positioned in the mixer outlet.        rj '    invention as set forth in claim   %    wherein the mixer outlet is generally circular and is provided with a plurality of deflecting structures for converting   the      tangential    velocity of the vortex flow radially into   tbe    outlet to increase the discharge coefficient of the outlet.    31. the invention as set forth in claim 29 and wherein the means for reducing the flow resistance of the air-fuel   mixture      ¸'.. eaving    the housing comprises deflector means for smoothly deflecting flow in the outlet into the direction. of the axis of the outlet so as to reduce the coefficient of discharge of said outlet.     32. a mixing device for homogenizing and vaporizing a fuel-air mixture from a fuel-air metering means of an internal combustion engine for delivery to the intake manifold of said engine, wherein the fuel-air metering means has an air flow passage with a variable restriction therein, said mixing device comprising a generally circular mixer housing including a top and a bottom connected by a peripheral outer wall, said housing being provided with a centrally positioned outlet adapted for connection to the intake manifold of an internal combustion engine, said peripheral outer wall having an opening therein, inlet passage means connected.  to said opening and a fuel-air metering means, means in communication with the fuel-air metering means to introduce air into said inlet passage means, the inlet passage means directing the air past   said peripheral wall opening and into said circular housinc with high velocity tangentially with respect to the   circle    housing peripheral wall whereby a swirling and   inarl    spirally flow is developed in the circular mixer   hous.  ncs,    a deflector positioned in the opening in the peripheral outer wall arranged to cause the flow within the mixer   hous@    ing to maintain a roughly circular flow path across said peripheral wall opening approximately corresponding to   tne    curvature of the peripheral outer wall, so that a strong vortical flow is established and maintained within said generally circular housing.    33. a mixing device for homogenizing and vaporiz- ing a fuel-air mixture from a fuel-air metering means of    n    internal combustion engine for delivery to the intake manifold of said engine, said mixing device comprising a generall circular mixer housing including a top and a bottom connecte by a peripheral outer wall, said housing being provided with a centrally positioned outlet adapted for connection to the intake manifold of an internal combustion engine, said peripheral outer wall having an opening therein, air inlet passage means connected to said opening and fuel-air metering means, means in communication with the fuel-air   mitering    means to introduce air into said air inlet passage means,  the air inlet passage means directing the air past said periphery wall opening and into said circular housing with high   veloclv    tangentially with respect to the circular housing peripheral wall whereby a swirling and inwardly spirally flow is deveioped in the circular mixer housing, a pivotable throttle     @late in the i@take passage to control the passage    flow cross section to control the velocity of the tangentially introduced fuel-air mixture delivered into said  circular housing.    34. a mixing device for homogenizing and vaporizing a   fuel-air    fixture from a fuel-air metering means of an internal combustion engine for delivery to the intake mani old of said engine, said mixing device comprising a generally circular mixer housing including a top and a bottom connected by a peripheral outer wall, said housing being provided with a centrally positioned outlet adapted for connection to the intake manifold of an internal combustion engine, said peripheral outer wall having an opening therein, air inlet passage means connected to said opening and a fuelair metering means to introduce air into said air inlet passage means,  the air inlet passage means directing the flow past the peripheral wall opening and into said circular housing with high velocity tangentially with respect to the circular housing peripheral wall whereby a swirling and inwardly spirally flow is developed in the circular mixer housing, a variable restriction throttling means to vary the inlet passage flow cross section to control the velocity of the fuel-air mixture tangentially introduced into the mixer nousing.    35. a mixing device for homogenizing a fuel-air   mixture    for an internal combustion engine having an intake manifold for directing the fuel-air mixture to at least one  cylinder, said device including a source of inlet alr, an   entrance      section      eor    said air,   a      variable    area air throt-    ling    valve in the entrance section passage   ol    said entrance   @otion,ans a    vortex chamber connected in the entrance sec tion passage, said vortex chamber having an outlet supplying  the intake manifold in the internal combustion engine,  the   jet    teing centrally and   axially    positioned in   thd    vortex  hamber, said chamber having a peripheral wail extending   round    the centrally positioned outlet whereby the vortex chamber functions by interaction with the entrance section passage to stabilize a relatively vortical flow pattern within said vortex chamber and rotating about said central outlet in said vortex chamber,  means for introducing fuel whereby said fuel flows to the peripheral wall of the vortex chamber,  said entrance section introducing a high-speed air flow from the variable area air throttling valve into the   vortex    chamber in a form where a large portion of the isentropic flow velocity past said air throttling valve is introduced smoothly into the vortex chamber in a tangential direction having high angular momentum with respect to the vortex outlet in the vortex chamber.    36. the invention as set forth in claim 35, and wherein the high-speed flow introduced from said entrance section into said vortex   chamber    is introduced in a direction tangential to the outside diameter of the vortical flow in    said   @@@@      @hereby    the interaction of the geometry    of sa @te section and said vortex chamber is arranged    to the the   @@@@@@ce    flow drives the said vortical flow into a pattern where the mean flow streamlines of said vortical flow form an approximately irrotational vortex flow pattern.      ?.    the i   nvention    as set forth in claim 35 and where the geometrical relations between said entrance section and said variabl area air throttling valve proceeds through said entrance section and into said vortex chamber as follows  the variable flow area of said throttling valve is formed so that the high-speed flow past said throt   tle    forms high-speed jets adjacent smooth walls of said entrance section passage, whereby said jets attach to said walls to form coanda wall attached streams which flow in a pattern determined by the interaction of inertial physics and pressure forces generated by the coanda wall interaction so that the wall shaping smoothly guides these wall attached jets for tangential entry into the outside diameter of the vortical flow within said vortex chamber.    38. the invention as set forth in claim 37 and wherein the passage geometry of said entrance section in interaction with said wall attached jet flow forms and stabilizes a stable nonmodal system of parasitic vortices, whereby parasitic vortices smoothly mesh with said wall attached jets to form a flow pattern which reduces velocity gradients between said jets and the remaining air volume  within said   entrance    passage so as to reduce turbulent spreading and decay of said wall attached jets.    39. the invention as set forth in claim 38 and wherein a deflector vane is provided within the entrance section whereby one of the said parasitic vortex flow patterns is stabilized by interaction with said vane and whereby the fluid mechanical interactions in said parasitic vortex system are such that said stabilized parasitic vortex thereby stabilizes the flow geometry of the entire parasitic vortex system within said entrance section.    40. the invention as set forth in claim 37 and wherein said entrance section comprises a relatively smooth flow passage transition from a generally circular inlet flow passage cross section containing an air throttling valve of generally circular butterfly type and an entrance section outlet of roughly trapezoidal shape having two sides roughly perpendicular to the central axis of said vortex chamber outlet and two sides roughly parallel to said outlet central axis, wherein the junctions of said respective sides are called corner sections, and wherein the high-speed flow past said butterfly valve restriction attaches to the passage wall to form a coanda wall attached jet flow pattern,   whereby the inlet passage transition section is shaped so that the interaction of inertial forces on said jet flow pattern and the pressure forces due to the wall attachment effect smoothly guide said jet flow pattern whereby the great majority of the mass flow in said jet flow pattern flows into said corner   sections and adjacent said roughly parallel   passag    wall sides, and whereby the curvature of the outlet of said entrance section passage guides said jets for smooth tangential introduction to the outside of the vortex pattern within said vortex chamber.    41. the invention as set forth in   claim    35 and wherein variable geometry means   ;e      provides   in the vortex chamber to destroy the high angular flow about the outlet when the air throttle is nearly wide open to reduce the total flow resistance past said mixing device under such wide open throttle conditions.    42. the invention as set forth in claim 35 and wherein there are positioned around said vortex chamber outlet a multiplicity of deflector vanes   arranged    to deflect tangential velocity of the flow interacting with said vanes in a radial direction, to significantly reduce the swirl and organized vortical character of the flow within said outlet chamber, and wherein said deflector vances are so arranged that the detailed fluid mechanical relations within said outlet chamber are significantly decoupled from the vortical flow pattern which occurs in said vortex chamber between said central outlet deflector vanes and the peripheral wall of said vortex chamber.    43. the invention as set forth in claim 42 and wherein a variable geometry spoiler vane is arranged so that   can    be actuated between a position totally within said fluid mechanically decoupled volume within said   cutioz     deflector vanes and a spoiler vane position which significantly protrudes into the vortical flow passage outside said deflector vanes to disrupt the vortical flow which would otherwise occur in said vortical flow passage, thereby selectively. reducing the total flow resistance of said mixing device under wide open throttle conditions.    44. a mixing device for homogenizing a fuel-air mixture for an internal combustion engine having an intake manifold for directing the fuel-air mixture to at least one cylinder, said device including a source of inlet air, an entrance section for said air, a variable area air throttling valve system in the entrance section passage of said entrance section, and a vortex chamber connected to the entrance section passage, said vortex'chamber having an outlet supplying the intake manifold of the internal combustion engine, the outlet being centrally and axially positioned in the outer chamber,  said chamber having a peripheral wall extending around the centrally positioned outlet whereby the vortex chamber functions by interaction with the entrance section passage to stabilize a relatively vortical flow pattern within said vortex chamber and rotating about said central outlet in said vortex chamber, means for introducing fuel whereby said fuel flows to the peripheral wall of the vortex chamber,  the entrance section passage having an outlet generally trapezoidal in cross section with the respective ,sides converging to form junctures called corners wherein  there is a minimum flow through the entrance section called idle flow,  wherein there is a minimum flow area past said throttling valve system corresponding to said idle flow and wherein said throttling system is configured so that a significant fraction of the idle flow passes through a con   centrated    area of said throttling system configured with respect to the passage walls of said entrance section so that idle flow fraction forms a concentrated wall attached jet,  and wherein the shape of said inlet passage is such that said jet is guided predominantly to a single corner section of said entrance passage so that the turbulent decay of said jet is minimized and the fluidic efficiency of the flow introduction into said vortex chamber is thereby maximized under near idle and idle flow conditions and the flow is smoothly introduced into the vortex chamber in a tangential direction having relatively high angular momentum with respect to the vortex outlet in the vortex chamber.    45. the invention as set forth in claim 32 and wherein the bottom of the mixer housing is upwardly convex so that liquid fuel developed on the bottom under cold start conditions will accumulate adjacent the peripheral wall to avoid liquid fuel discharge through the chamber outlet.    46. the invention as set forth in claim 32 and wherein the top and bottom of the mixer housing are each formed as surfaces of revolution wherein the center of said surfacesof revolution is the central axis of the housing outlet.     47. the invention as set forth in   claimug lal    wherein the egr is introduced into the entrance section.    48. the invention as set forth in claim 38 and wherein the egr is introduced into the system of parasitic vortices in the entrance chamber whereby said egr is smoothly introduced by mixing into the wall attached jets.    49. the invention as set forth in claim 35 and wherein the means for introducing fuel provides that the instantaneous rate of fuel supply under steady-state conditions is relatively steady and smooth.    50. the invention as set forth in claim 35 and wherein the peripheral wall of the vortex chamber is heated to vaporize the liquid fuel which comes in contact therewith.    51. the invention as set forth in claim 50 and wherein the peripheral wall of the vortex chamber is provided externally with fins heated by exhaust gases.    52. the invention as set forth in claim 50 and wherein a portion of the peripheral wall of the vortex chamber is heated by an evaporation-condensation heat exchanger connected with exhaust heating means.    53. the invention as set forth in claim 35 and wherein fuel is directly injected into vortex chamber.    54. the invention as set forth in claim 35 and wherein the means for introducing fuel is positioned to inject the fuel directly into the wall attached air stream.    55. the invention as set forth in claim 35 and wherein the means introducing fuel directs the fuel into the idle jet stream whereby said fuel flows to the peripheral  wall of the vortex chamber  56. the invention   a@      @@@      @@rth    in claim   @@    a   wherein said means for @@@@@@@@@@@ f@ei whereby said f@    flows to the peripheral wall of the vortex chamber introduces fuel into a high velocity air flow section of said concentrated area of said throttling system so that said fuel is atomized into droplets by said high velocity air flow and wherein said atomized droplets are carried with said air flow into said concentrated wall attached jet and thereby introduced into said vortex chamber at high velocity to attain low total system fuel lags and even distribution of    fuel around said vortex chamber peripheral wall for rapid evaporation and complete mining.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
