<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0017451
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19801015
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B01F-3/04 C02F-3/12 C02F-3/20 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
apparatus and method for producing a gas in liquid dispersion.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
chemineerus<sep>chemineer, inc.<sep>chemineer inc.p.o. box 1123dayton, ohio 45401us<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
donaldson charles bus<sep>donaldson, charles b.<sep>donaldson, charles b.223 western avenuebrookville ohious<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
the present invention relates to a method and apparatus  for producing gas-liquid dispersions in which a motionless  mixing device is used to replace or operate in conjunction  with a gas sparge ring in an impeller agitator system.  in one embodiment, gas and liquid are fed through  conduits (16, 18, 20, 22) containing associated motionless  mixers (24, 26, 28, 30) to predisperse the two phases.  the  dispersion is injected into the bottom of a tank (11)  containing an impeller agitator (12) which maintains the  dispersion for a time sufficient for mass transfer to occur.   significantly less power is required for the impeller agitator  (12) to maintain the dispersion produced by the motionless  mixers (24, 26, 28, 30) than is required to produce an  equivalent level of dispersion with an impeller agitator  operating with a gas sparge ring alone.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
apparatus and method for producing a gas in liquid dispersion this invention relates generally to dispers i gases into liquids, and more particularly to a method and apparatus for the more efficient production of gas-liquid dispersions. - the creation of gas in liquid dispersions for such physical mass transfer phenomena as absorption, in which a soluble component of a gas mixture is dissolved in a liquid, and stripping, in which a gas dissolved in a liquid phase is transferred to a gas, plays an important role in diverse chemical operations. examples of industrial applications requiring the dispersion of a gas into a liquid phase are the oxidation of organic aromatic hydrocarbons such as cyclohexane to cyclohexanone, the hydrogenation of unsaturated glycerides, fermentations carried out under aerobic conditions for the production of antibiotics, steroids, and sinle-cell proteins, the oxidation of biological wastes, and the oxidation or other chemical reaction with suspended particulate solids such as the oxidation of calcium sulfite to calcium sulfate. many of these industrial applications also involve suspensions of solids in the liquid phase. dispersions of a gas in a liquid not only bring about a large increase in the interfacial surface area available for mass transfer, but also place the two phases in a state of motion which serves to increase the rate of mass transfer between phases. the prior art has utilized several different methods and apparatuses for producing gas-in-liquid bispersions, with the particular method and apparatus utilized being dependent upon a number of factors including the difficulty in creating the dispersion, twe size and size distribution of gas bubbles needed for optimum mass transfer, the time required for the transfer to occur, and the cost of purchasing and operating the dispersing equipment. the simplest method of dispersing a gas in a liquid contained in a tank is to introduce the gas through a perforated plate or pipe sparger located in the bottom of the tank however, for most chemical processes, a simple sparge ring gives inadequate gas-liquid contacting and relatively poor mixing. an impeller-type agitator must be introduced into the tank to disperse the gas bubbles through the liquid phase and to provide the agitation necessary for good mixing. such impeller-type agitators must not only create sufficient turbulence to disperse the gas bubbles evenly throughout the tank, but also actually break up the gas bubbles into smaller sizes to provide a larger interfacial area and promote liquid motion for mass transfer. use of very small diameter hole spargers or porous plate spargers to create an initial small bubble size is impractical -in many cases since unacceptably large pressure drops are caused requiring increased power consumption to pump the gas through the sparger. such devices also tend to plug up. additionally, impeller-type agitators provide substantial backmixing even for continuous processes and therefore are used in most instances in batch-type operations. the use of motionless mixers to create gas-inliquid dispersions has also been used in the prior art. these motionless mixers, so-called because they have no moving
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
   claims      1. apparatus for producing and maintaining   a, dis-    persion of a gas phase in a liquid phase comprising; conduit means (16) in fluid communication with a tank means (11); said conduit means having at least one liquid inlet   (34)    and at least one gas inlet (41), and disposed in said conduit means   dotmstream    from said gas and liquid inlets, motionless mixing means (24) for dispersing the gas phase into the liquid phase; said tank means having means (12) to agitate the gas-in-liquid dispersion and maintain said dispersion for a time sufficient for mass transfer to occur between phases.   2. the apparatus claimed in claim 1, in which said motionless mixing means (24) comprises a plurality of alternating left-handed and right-handed curved, sheet-like elements.   3. the apparatus claimed in claim 1 or 2, in which said conduit means comprises a plurality of conduits (16, 18, 20, 22) extending into the bottom portion of said tank means (11), each conduit containing a motionless mixing means (24, 26, 28, 30 respectively).   4. the apparatus claimed in claim 3, in which   each    of said conduits (16, 18, 20, 22) has a gas inlet (44, 42,'40, 38, respectively).   5.- the apparatus claimed in any preceding claim, including means (48) to recycle liquid from said tank means (11) to said conduit means.     6. the apparatus claimed in claim 5, including means (46) for removing   gtas    entrained in liquid removed from said tank means (11).   7. in combination:  motionless mixing means (24) for predispersing a gaseous phase into a liquid phase, and  an agitated tank means (11, 12) in fluid connection with said motionless mixing means (24) for maintaining the gas-in-liquid dispersion for a time sufficient for mass transfer between phases to occur.   8. the method of producing and maintaining a dispersion of a gaseous phase in a liquid phase comprising the steps of,  injecting said gaseous phase into said liquid phase and passing said phases through a conduit (16) containing a plurality of curved sheet-like elements (24) extending longitudinally within said conduit and each having a curvature to turn the direction of phases flowing through said conduit, said elements being arranged in alternating right- and left-handed curvature groups, the leading and trail   ing    edges of such groups being disposed at a sub   stantial    angle to each other, to predisperse said gaseous phase into said liquid phase, and  introducing the dispersion into an agitated tank (11, 12) to maintain said dispersion for a time sufficient for mass transfer to occur between the phases.   9. the method claimed in claim 8, in which said liquid phase also contains suspended particulate solids.     10. the method claimed in claim 9, in   iz    said gaseous phase is an oxygen-containing gas which   chemically    reacts with said particulate solid.   11. the method claimed in claim 8, in which said gaseous phase is an   oxygen-containing    gas, and said liquid phase contains biological fermentation products, or an aromatic hydrocarbon compound, or aerobically treatable biological waste products.   12. the method claimed in claim 8, in   which    said gaseous phase is a   hydrogen-containing    gas, and said liquid phase contains an unsaturated hydrocarbon compound.   13. the method claimed in any of claims 8 to 12, in which said dispersion is introduced into the bottom portion of said tank.      14.      a    method of producing and maintaining a dispersion of a gas in a   liquid    in an agitated tank comprising the steps of,   injecting      said      gas    into said liquid and   pissing    the mixture through an elongated, pipe-like turbulence-promoting device (16, 24) having substantially plug flow character   is tics    to create a dispersion of said   gas,    in said liquid, discharging said dispersion adjacent to an impeller (12) in an agitated mixing tank (11) containing said   liquid,    and operating said impeller to further distribute said dispersion throughout said tank.    15. the   method      cthime & n      clnii    14, in   which    said step of injecting gas into said liquid provides tke principal means by   which    said gas is introduced into said agitated tank.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
