<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0015600
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800917
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
F16K-3/02 F16K-3/08 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
cock of improved type.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
mingori diffusionit<sep>mingori diffusion s.r.l.<sep>mingori diffusion s.r.l.4, via s. pietro martirei-42100 reggio emiliait<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
mingori claudioit<sep>mingori, claudio<sep>mingori, claudio10, via carduccii-42041 brescello (reggio emilia)it<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
improved cock- consisting of a hollow body (1) for  connection to a normal water main, a delivery nozzle (2)  branching from said hollow body (1), and a valve seat  disposed transversely to this latter, comprises a pack-type  valve unit in which, into a cartridge or cup (14), two ceramic  discs (12, 13) and a disc member (11) rigid with the inner  end of an operating rod (4), are inserted; the first ceramic  disc (13) being torsionally engaged with the base wall of  the cartridge (14), and the second ceramic disc (12) being  torsionally engaged with the disc member (11), by means  of two pairs of diametrically opposing cylindrical stems  (19, 20) branching from the base wall of the cartridge (14)  and from the disc member (11), and which are inserted  into suitable recesses provided in the corresponding ce­ ramic discs (12, 13).  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
cock of improved type this patent relates to an improved cock, which is especially designed to enable its operational state and/or the state of its seal to be kept in proper condition, without it being necessary to carry-out complicated repair operations, or to dismantle it and replace it completely. suitable cocks are used for delivering water from the normal water mains. these include, among others, cocks constituted essentially by a hollow body provided with a suitable valve seat and intended for connection to the water main; an operating rod inserted into said hollow body and fitted at its ends with a handle and valve element; and a delivery mouth connected to this body downstream of its valve seat. usually, said valve element comprises a disc, rigid with the operating rod, and fitted with a seal ring or gasket which, when the cock is in its closed position, rests against the valve seat of the hollow body. however, although cocks of the aforesaid known type continue to be widely used, they have certain drawbacks which are described hereinafter. a first serious drawback of cocks of the aforesaid type derives from the long, complicated and costly operations necessary to restore the sealing state of such cocks to its proper condition once their valve seat hays been worn due to the passage and leakage of liquid. these operations require the replacement of the seal ring, and the grinding down of the valve seat; this having to be carried out manually with a suitable tool. moreover, this operation is either not always possible, or at most can be carried out only once or twice, after which the complete cock must be replaced. this replacement involves a great deal of bother, in particular if the cock is embedded, as in the case of water closets or direct water discharge points for lavatory bowls. in such cases, the wall and any surrounding tiles must be broken away, the cock replaced and finally said wall and tiles made good. further drawbacks of these types of cock derive from the fact that the thread between the operating rod and the hollow body can become easily damaged due to the frequent operation and continuous presence of moisture. the object of the present patent is to provide a cock of improved type, in which the aforesaid drawbacks are obviated by a constructionally simple, rational, functional and highly reliable design. according to the invention, the cock provided is of the type comprising a hollow body for connection to the water main, an operating rod-mounted rotatably inside the hollow body, and a delivery nozzle branching from said hollow body, wherein on the inner end of this rod, which is constructed of plastics material, there is disposed a pack of discoidal members partly intended for sealing purposes and partly intended for adjusting the liquid flow rate, and which form a cartridge which is gripped by the operating rod and is pressed against the valve seat of the hollow body by a spring mounted
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
what we claim is:   1. an improved cock   åas    heretofore described, of the type comprising a hollow body for connection to a normal water main, a delivery nozzle branching from said hollow body, and a valve seat disposed transversely to this latter, comprising a pack-type valve unit which is continuously pressed against said valve seat and constrained torsionally thereto, and provided with apertures which become aligned with each other to a greater or lesser extent depending on the angular position of an operating rod mounted rotatably relative to the hollow body, and having its inner end coupled to said valve unit.   2. an improved cock as claimed in claim 1, wherein said pack-type valve unit comprises, starting from said valve seat, a cartridge or cup into which are inserted two ceramic discs and a disc member rigid with the inner end of the operating rod, the first of said ceramic discs being   torsionally engaged    with the base wall of the cartridge, and the second ceramic disc being torsionally engaged with the disc member, by means of two pairs of diametrically opposing cylindrical stems branching  s from the base wall of the cartridge and from the disc member, and which are inserted into suitable recesses provided in the corresponding ceramic discs.   3. an improved cock as claimed in claim 1, wherein the torsional constraint between the pack-type valve unit and the valve seat of the hollow body is provided by an outer cylindrical stem branching from the base wall of the cartridge and inserted into a through bore  provided in said valve seat.   4. an improved cock as claimed in claim 1, wherein the apertures in the pack-type valve unit comprise four analogous arcuate slots, which are constantly aligned in pairs whatever the angular position of the operating rod.   5. an improved cock as claimed in claim 1, wherein the coupling between the pack-type valve unit and the inner end of the operating rod is provided by a circumferential lip on the cartridge which   isbentover    onto said disc member; said cartridge being constructed of a suitable plastics material.   6. an improved cock as claimed in claim 1, wherein said operating rod, constructed of a suitable plastics material, emerges freely from the hollow body by way of a guide plug, and has mounted on it a compression spring, the opposing ends of which rest against the inner transverse wall of said plug and against a circumferential rib on the rod respectively; said rib being   in' proximity    to the disc member, suitable seal gaskets or rings being disposed  s between the operating rod and the guide plug.    7. an improved cock as claimed in claim 1, wherein suitable seal gaskets are disposed between the outer transverse face of the base wall of the cartridge and the valve seat of the hollow body, and between the outer cylindrical surface of the cartridge and the inner cylindrical wall of the hollow body.     8. an improved cock as heretofore described and illustrated in the accompanying drawings, and for the objects herein specified.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
