<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0017682
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19801029
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
G01V-3/10 G01N-27/72 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
method and system for geophysical induction surveying
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
geoprobe ltdca<sep>geoprobe limited <sep>geoprobe limited32 progress avenuescarborough ontarioca   <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
williams michael rca<sep>williams, michael r.<sep>williams, michael r.419 sunset driveoakville ontarioca<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
the present invention relates to an inductive electromagnetic investigative method and is used for determining the presence of constituent mixtures of metallic compositions in a body the moethod comprises the steps of creating at least one electromagnetic field inductively coupling the body to be investigated with the field for exciting the body to produce current flow in any such mixtures which by virtue of their inherent non linear circuit characteristics, give rise to secondary electromagnetic field effects which are non linear with respect to the created field.  investigating any secondary electromagnetic field created by the @excitation@ of the body for the presence of any such non linear secondary electromagnetic field effects, to determine such mixtures are present indivative of the nature of the body. 
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
geophysical surveying method the present invention relates to an inductive electromagnetic investigative method especially useful in geophysical surveying for detecting sulphide ore bodies. in the past, various geophysical methods have been used to detect the presence of ore bearing bodies beneath the surface of the earth. the most widely used of these methods creates a primary electromagnetic (e,m,) field to induce a secondary field in a conductor and measure the secondary field relative to the primary field to establish the presence and size of the conductor. these methods have not been able to distinguish commercial ore bodies from non desired conductors such as clay, saline water bodies etc. according to the present invention it has been found that constituent mixtures of metallic compositions have inherent non linear circuit characteristics independent of current and the presence of these mixtures and associated ore bodies are therefore determined by exciting them with a created e.m. field and detecting secondary e.m. field effects which are non linear with respect to the created e.m. field. the inductive electromagnetic investigative method of the present invention is used for determining the presence of constituent mixtures of metallic composition in a body and comprises the steps of creating at least one electromagnetic field, inductively coupling the body to be investigated with the at least one electromagnetic field for exciting the body to produce current flow in any such mixtures which, by virtue of their inherent non linear circuit characteristics, give rise to secondary electromagnetic field effects which are non linear with respect to the at least one created electromagnetic field, investigating any secondary electromagnetic field created by the excitation of the body by the at least one created electromagnetic field for the presence of any such non linear secondary electromagnetic field effects to determine if any such mixtures are present indicative of the nature of the body. although the method of the present invention is primarily directed to a geophysical surveying method it is also useful for detecting corrosion faults, or discontinuities in metallic articles. for example, this method is used to detect weld faults in pipelines imeh again have inherent non linear circuit characteristics. in carrying out the method the created electromagnetic field or fields are selected to have a frequency in the audio range, e.g. from about 1 hertz to 10,000 hertz, the particular frequency being dependent on the circumstances encountered such as over burden and the like, and the intensity the field created being selected also according to the circumstances encountered such as the over burden depth of investigation etc., as well as the frequency of the created field. it is to be understood that in the selection of the frequency and intensity of the created e.m. field the object is simply to induce current flow in the mixture of metallic compositions in the body being investigated of sufficient magnitude that the resulting secondary field effects produced as a result of such current flow can be detected. it will be understood that the non linear
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:   1. an inductive   e.n,    investigative method for determining the presence of constituent mixtures of metallic compositions in a body comprising the steps of creating at least one e.m. field, inductively coupling the body to be investigated with said at least one e.m. field for exciting the body to produce current flow in any such mixtures which by virtue of their inherent non-linear circuit characteristics give rise to secondary   e,m.    field effects which are non-linear with respect to the at least one created e.m.   field, investigating any secondary e.m. field created by the excitation of the body by said at least one created e.m.   field for the presence of any such non-linear secondary   e.n.      field effects to determine if any such mixtures are present.   2. an inductive electromagnetic investigative method as claimed in claim 1, wherein any secondary electromagnetic field is investigated by receiver means essentially minimum coupled with said at least one created electromagnetic field.   3. an inductive electromagnetic investigative method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the frequency of the at least one electromagnetic field is in the range of 1 hertz to 10   e    hertz.      4.    an inductive electromagnetic investigative method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the frequency of the at least one electromagnetic field is in the range of 1 hertz to 2.5   e    hertz.   5. an inductive electromagnetic investigative method as claimed in claims 1, 2, or 3, wherein the at least one electromagnetic field is created by transmitting an essentially pure sine wave and wherein any secondary electrmagnetic field is investigated at harmonics of said pure sine wave.     6. an inductive electromagnetic field is investigative method as claimed in claim 4,   wherein    said secondary electromagnetic field is investigated at the third harmonic of said pure sine wave.   7. an inductive electromagnetic investigative method as claimed in claims 1, 2 or 3, wherein two electromagnetic fields are created having different frequencies and investigating said secondary field at the beat frequencies.   8. a method as defined in claim 4 including subjecting the body to be investigated to a further different stimulating e.m. field which amplify the non linear effects due to the mixtures.   9. an inductive e.m. investigative method as defined in claim 4 including further subjecting the body to be investigated to an intermittent d.c. e.m. field to enhance the harmonic response in the secondary e.m. field.   10. an inductive e.m. investigative method as defined in claim 1 including creating two e.m. fields one of which has a frequency of 50 hertz to 5   e    hertz and the second field has a substantially lower frequency in the range of .1 to 40 hertz.   11. an inductive e.m. investigative method as defined in claim 1 for use in determining the presence of weld faults and other discontinuities in rods and pipelines.   12. an inductive e.m. investigative method as defined in claim 1 including further analysing the phase   characer-    istics of any uncovered non linear secondary field effects to indicate the nature of the mixtures.   13. a system for an inductive electromagnetic investigative method for determining the presence of constituents     mixtures    of metallic compositions in a body comprising means for creating at least one electromagnetic field which is inductively coupled to the body to be investigated for exciting the body to produce current flow in any such mixtures which by virtue of their inherent non linear circuit characteristics, give rise to secondary electromagnetic field effects which are non linear with respect to the at least one created electromagnetic field and receiver means for investigating any secondary electromagnetic field created by the excitation of the body by the said at least one created electromagnetic field for investigating the presence of any such non linear secondary electromagnetic field effects to determine if any such mixtures are present.       14.    a system as defined in claim 13, wherein such transmitting means comprises a signal generator and a transmitting loop.   15. a system as defined in claim 14, wherein said receiving means selected from the group of receiving means consisting of receiver coils, fluxgate, magnaometer and cryogenic devices.   16. a system as defined in claim 15, wherein the transmitting loop is stationery and the receiving means is portable.   17. a system as defined in claim 16, wherein the trans   mitting    loop and receiving means are both portable and are carried with one another in a fixed, constant relationship.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
