<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0012267
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800625
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
F16T-1/00 F16T-1/10 <main>F16T-1/10</main> F16T-1/02 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
thermostatic steam trap and insert assembly usable in a body member to form a thermostatic steam trap.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
yarway corpus<sep>yarway corporation<sep>yarway corporationnorristown and narcissa roadsblue bell pennsylvaniaus<sep>yarway corporation  <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
hetz heinz k<sep>hetz, heinz k.<sep>hetz, heinz k.ash roadholicong pennsylvaniaus<sep>hetz, heinz k.<sep>hetz, heinz k.ash roadholicong pennsylvaniaus<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
the thermostatic steam trap assembly disclosed herein  comprises a body member (12) and an insert assembly (14),  the latter including inlet passage means (62) communicating  with the inlet side (28) of the body member, discharge pas足 sage means (64) communicating with the discharge side (42)  of the body member and diaphragm means (74) carried inter足 mediate the inlet and discharge passage means such that  one face thereof cooperates with a valve seat to allow or pre足 vent fluid flow through the passage means.  a control cham足 ber (80) is formed adjacent the other face of the diaphragm  means (74) and carries a small porous block (82) of material  which is saturated with a generally conventional control fluid  such that the control fluid is responsive to the temperature of  the fluid or the inlet side of the body member to control the  position of the diaphragm means.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
thermostatic steam trap specification this invention relates to steam traps, that is, devices for allowing the escape of hot condensate and gases from a steam line, and, more particularly, to thermostatic steam traps, that is, steam traps operated in response to the temperature of the fluid in the steam line. thermostatic steam traps generally include a valve and a control chamber in which is carried a control fluid responsive to the fluid temperature on the inlet side of the trap to control the opening and closing of the valve. normally the control fluid is in a liquid state and vaporizes at a temperature somewhat lower than the steam temperature of the fluid on the inlet side of the trap. in the liquid state when the temperature of the fluid on the inlet side of the trap indicates condensate is present, the condensate pressure opens the valve allowing the passage of the condensate. when the temperature of the condensate approaches that of steam, the control fluid vaporizes exerting a pressure closing the valve and preventing the passage of steam. one type of thermostatic steam trap utilizes a bellows member forming part of the control chamber in which the control fluid is contained. normally, the bellows member includes a valve member at an end thereof adjacent a valve seat at the discharge passage of the trap. another type of thermostatic trap includes a diaphragm arrangement in which one face forms part of the control chamber and another face of which cooperates with a valve seat to provide the required valve action. examples of this latter type of trap are disclosed in united states patent, no. 4,013,220 and in united states patent, no. 4,037,784. in both types, the control fluid is placed in the control chamber in liquid state. this means that the various components forming the control chamber are initially welded or otherwise secured together with provision being made for a small inlet opening through which the control fluid is poured in liquid state into the interior of the chamber. thereafter, the control chamber can be evacuated, but in all cases, the opening must be sealed. accordingly, the manufacture of thermostatic steam traps is relatively expensive in view of the various manufacturing steps required to form, fill and seal the control chamber. it is, therefore, a primary object of this invention to provide a thermostatic steam trap that is relatively economical to manufacture. it is another object of this invention to provide a thermostatic steam trap including a relatively inexpensive insert assembly that can be manufactured with a minimum number of manufacturing operations. it is still another object of this invention to provide a thermostatic steam trap assembly including a capsule member in which is located a small block of porous material saturated with a generally conventional control fluid. finally, it is an object of this invention to provide a thermostatic steam trap assembly including generally conventional body member and a relatively economical insert assembly arranged so that the insert assembly is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
i claim    1. a thermostatic steam trap comprising a body member and an insert assembly, said body member having an inlet passage and a discharge passage, said insert assembly having an inlet passageway communicating with said inlet passage and a discharge passageway communicating with said discharge passage, said insert assembly including a control chamber and generally flexible diaphragm means, one face of said diaphragm means forming part of said control chamber and another face thereof operating to open or close said passageways, a solid material including a control fluid located in said control chamber, said control chamber being in heat exchange relationship with fluid in the inlet side of said body member whereby said control fluid moves said diaphragm means between its open and closed positions in response to the temperature of the fluid in the inlet side.    2. a thermostatic steam trap in accordance with claim 1 wherein said solid material is a block of porous material saturated with said control fluid.    3. a thermostatic steam trap in accordance with claim 1 wherein said inlet passageway communicates with a recess adjacent said diaphragm means whereby fluid in the inlet side of said body member contacts said diaphragm means.    4. a thermostatic steam trap in accordance with claim 1 wherein said inlet passage communicates with a chamber in said body member, said insert assembly being located in said chamber whereby fluid in the inlet side of said body member contacts said insert assembly.    5. a thermostatic steam trap in accordance with claim 2 wherein said block of porous material is metal or ceramic.    6. a thermostatic steam trap in accordance with claim 1 including a recess in said body member in which said insert assembly is received, said recess being closed by a bonnet member, and spring means between said bonnet member and said insert assembly for retaining said insert assembly in position.      7. a thermostatic stream trap in accordance with claim 6 wherein said bonnet member includes retaining ring means for retaining said spring means with said bonnet member when said bonnet member is removed from said body member.    8. a thermostatic steam trap in accordance with claim 1 wherein said diaphragm means includes a first diaphragm adjacent said control chamber and a second diaphragm adjacent said passageway, said first and second diaphragms being in abutting relationship.    9. an insert assembly usable in a body member to form a stream trap, said insert assembly comprising a generally cylindrical insert member formed with a radial flange at one end and including inlet passage means and discharge passage means, a hat-shaped housing member formed with a central recessed portion and a radial flange, generally flexible diaphragm means between said insert member and said housing member; said insert member, housing member and diaphragm means being secured at the outer periphery of said radial flanges, said diaphragm means extending across said central recessed portion of said housing member forming a control chamber, and a solid material including a control fluid in said control chamber.    10. an insert assembly in accordance with claim 9, wherein said solid material is a block of porous material saturated with said control fluid.    11. an insert assembly in accordance with claim 9 wherein said inlet passage means comprises a plurality of passageways extending from one end face of said insert member to the other end face, said one end face being formed with an annular recess with which said passageways communicate, said discharge passage means including a bore centrally formed in said one end face inwardly of said annular recess and crossbores extending from said bore to the cylindrical wall of said insert member.      12. an insert assembly in accordance with claim 11 wherein said other end face of said insert member is formed with a recess.    13. an insert assembly in accordance with claim 9 wherein said inlet passage means comprises a plurality of passageways formed in said radial flange on said insert member, and wherein said discharge passage means comprises a passage centrally formed in said insert member and extending from one end face to the other.    14. an insert assembly in accordance with claim 13 wherein at its other end, said insert member is formed with a reduced diameter portion.    15. an insert assembly in accordance with claim 9 wherein said diaphragm means includes a first diaphragm adjacent said housing member and extending across said recessed portion thereof to form said control chamber and further includes a second diaphragm adjacent said insert member and being formed with a central opening generally adjacent said discharge passage means.    16. an insert assembly in accordance with claim 15 wherein said first and second diaphragms are in abuttting relationship.    17. a thermostatic steam trap comprising a body member and an insert assembly, said body member having an inlet passage, a discharge passage, and a recessed portion therebetween, said insert assembly being located in said recessed portion and having an inlet passageway communicating with said inlet passage and a discharge passageway communicating with said discharge passage, said insert assembly including a control chamber and generally flexible diaphragm means, one face of said diaphragm means forming part of said control chamber and another face thereof operating to open or close said passageways, temperature responsive control fluid located in said control chamber,  said control chamber being in heat exchange relationship with fluid in the inlet side of said body member whereby said control fluid moves said diaphragm means between its open and closed positions in response to the temperature of the fluid in the inlet side,  bonnet means closing the open end of said recessed portion, retaining means between said bonnet means and said insert assembly for retaining said insert assembly in position.     18. a thermostatic steam trap in accordance with claim 17 wherein said retaining means comprises spring means.    19. a thermostatic steam trap in accordance with claim 17 wherein said retaining means comprises a spring washer.    20. a thermostatic steam trap in accordance with claim 17 wherein said bonnet member includes retaining ring means for retaining said retaining means with said bonnet means when said bonnet means is removed from said body member.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
