<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0005326
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19791114
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
C08F-10/00 C08F-4/00 C08F-4/60 C08F-4/02 C08F-4/64 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
trihydrocarbyl aluminium cocatalysts for olefin polymerization, and use thereof.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
exxon research engineering cous <sep>exxon research and engineering company <sep>exxon research and engineering company p.o.box 390, 180 park avenueflorham park, new jersey 07932-0390us<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
langer arthur walter jrus<sep>langer, arthur walter, jr.<sep>langer, arthur walter, jr.175 oakwood roadwatchung new jerseyus<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
catalyst compositions for use in olefin polymerization  are a mixture of:   (a) ticl₃, ticl₄, tibr₃, tibr₄ or a mixture thereof on  a support;   (b) an alkyl metal compound having the formula:  rnmr′3-n or r₃″m wherein r′ is c₁ to c₂₀ primary  alkyl, alkenyl, aralkyl or hydrogen, m is al, ga or ln, r is a  c₃-c₂₀ secondary or tertiary alkyl, neopentyl alkyl, cycloalkyl,  alkenyl or aralkyl group, n is equal to 0-2; r″ is  c₁-c₂₀ primary alkyl, secondary alkyl, tertiary alkyl cycloalkyl,  alkenyl or an aralkyl group; wherein said composition  includes at least one lewis base, preferably an amine,  ester, phosphine, phosphine oxide, phosphate, amide,  ketone or ether, the molar ratio of said alkyl metal compound  to said transition metal compound being 0. 5:1 to  200:1; and   (c) an alkoxide, carboxylate or aryloxide of a group  ia to group iiib metal, the concentration of said metal salt  being 0. 1 to 20 moles per mole of alkyl metal compound.  polymerization of an olefin using this catalyst composition  is also described.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
it is well own in the art to use an alkyl menai compound of groups i-iii i.n combination with a transition metal compound of groups iva-vili as a catalyst system or olefinic polymerization. whilc nearly all of the. alkyl metal compounds are effective for the polymerization of ethylene, only a few are effective for the preparation of isotactic polymers of propylene and higher alpha olefins and only et2alcl, alet3 and i-bu2alh have any important commercial utility a major cost involved in the polymerization of the alpha olefins is the cost of the catalyst components. therefore, the cost of the manufacture of the polymer can be effectively reduced by the use of catalyst systems having a higher polymerization activity a further concern s the ability to produce polymers having a minimum amount of caza- lyst residues thereby eliminating a costly deashing operation. a still further concern is the ability to produce polymers having a high degree of isotactle stereoregularity thereby enabling the manufacturer to eliminate or reduce the costly operation involving the removal and separation of atactic polymer from the isotactic polymer. the improved catalyst system of the present invention provides a means for the manufacturer to obtain these desirable realizations. the improved catalyst systems of the present in- vent ion which are employed in alpha olefin polymerizations include a group iva-viii transition metal compound, one or more lewis bases, and at least one metal alkyl compound at least one of which is a metal trialkyl compound of al, ga or in, wherein at least one of the alkyl groups is a c3 t c20 secondary or tertiary alkyl, cycloalkyl, alkenyl or aralkyl group. the transition metal catalyst compound is a group iva-viii transition metal halide, wherein the halide group is chloride or bromide and the transition metal halide may be -in the form of solid crystalline compounds, solid solutions or compositions with other metal salts and is supported on the surface of a' wide range of solid supports. for highest stereospecificity it is desirable to have the transition metal halide, or its support composition, in the layer lattice structure with yery small crystallites, high surface area, or sufficient defects or foreign components to facilitate high dispersion during polymerization. the transition metal halide component may also include various additives such as lewis bases, pi bases, polymers or organic or inorganic modifiers. vanadium and titanium halides such as ntc13, vbr3, tic13, ticl4, tibr3 or tibr4 are preferred, sqst preferably tic13 or tic14, and mixtures thereof. the most preferred ticl3 compounds are those which contain tic14 edge sites on a layer lattice support such as alpha, delta, or gamma tis13 or various structures and modifications of tic13, mgc12 or other inorganic compounds having similar layer lattice structures. the most preferred tic14 compounds are those supported on chloride layer lattice compounds such as mgc12. in the support instead of chloride anions, other anions may be also present /such as other halides, pseudo-halides, alkoxides, hydroxides, oxides or carboxylates, etc., providing that. sufficient chloride xs available
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims   1. a catalyst composition suitable for use in polymerizations which comprises a mixture of:  (a) a titanium metal compound on a support, said   titanium    metal being   ticl3,    tic14, tibr3, tibr4 or a   mixture    thereof;  (b) at least one alkyl metal compound having the   formula.      rnmr'3   ;    wherein r' is a c1 to c20 primary alkyl, alkenyl or aralkyl group or hydrogen,   n    is al, ga or in, r is a   c-c20    secondary or tertiary alkyl, neopentyl alkyl, cycloalkyl or a secondary or tertiary alkenyl or aralkyl group , n is equal to 0-2; wherein said composition includes at least one lewis base with the proviso that the lewis base does not cause excessive cleavage of metal- -carbon bonds or loss of active sites, the molar ratio of said alkyl metal compound to said transition metal compound being about 0.5:1 to 200:1; and  (c) a salt of a group is to group iiib metal, said salt being an alkoxide, carboxylate or aryloxide, the concentration of    said metal salt being about 0.1 to 20 moles of said rnmr'3 n compound.      2. a catalyst composition suitable for use in polymerizations which comprises a mixture of:  (a) a titanium metal compound on a support, said titanium metal compound being   ticl3,      ticl4,    tibr3, tibr4 or a mixtures thereof;  (b) at least one alkyl metal compound having the formula r3"m wherein m is al, ga or in and r" is c1-c20 primary alkyl, secondary   alkyl,    tertiary alkyl, cycloalkyl, alkenyl or an aralkyl group, wberein said composition inciudes at least one lewis base with the proviso that the lewis base does not cause  excessive cleavage of metal-carbon bonds or loss of active sites,   the molar ratio of said r r3"}5 to said transition metal compound    being about 0.5:1 to about 200:1;  and  (c) a salt of a group ia to group iiib metal, said salt being an alkoxide, carboxylate or aryloxide, the concentration of said metal salt being about 0.1 to about 20 moles per mole of said r3"m compound.   3. a composition according to either of claims 1 and 2 wherein said support comprises   mac12.      4. a composition according to any one of the preceding claims wherein said lewis base is a carboxylic acid ester.   5.   a    composition according to any one of claims 1 to 3 wherein said lewis base is a tertiary amine, ester, phosphine, phosphine oxide or phosphate or a mixture thereof.   6. a composition according to any one of claims 1 to 3 wherein said lewis base is an aryl phosphate, alkyl   phosphate,    hexaalkyl phosphinic triamide, dimethyl sulfoxide or a mixture thereof.   7. a composition according to any one of claims 1 to 3 wherein said lewis base is dimethyl formamide, a secondary amine, ether,   epoxide,ketone    or a mixture thereof.   8. a composition according to any one of claims 1 to 3 wherein said lexis base is a saturated or unsaturated heterocycle, a cyclic ether or a mixture thereof.   9. a composition according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the titanium metal compound is a mixture of   tic14    and   tic13.      10. a composition according to any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein said titanium metal compound is tic14 containing   mgc12.      11. a composition according to any one of the preceding claims   wherein    the alkyl metal compound is   ra1k'    and is formed from the reaction.     product of r'2a1x and   rmgx',    wherein x is a chloride, bromide cr a monovalent anion   which    cannot initiate polymerization of olefinic monomers and x' is an anion which cannot initiate   polymerizacion    of olefinic monomers.    12. a composition according to any one of claims 1 to 10, emi44.1       the alkyl metal compound is r2a1r' and is formed from the reaction  product of r2mg and r'a1x2 wherein x is chloride, bromide or a  monovalent anion which cannot initiate polymerization of oletinic  monomers.    13. a composition according to any one of the preceding claims,    wherein    the group ia-iiib metal is magnesium or aluminium.    14. a process for the polymerization of a c2 to c20 olefinic  monomer or a mixtures thereof to a   homo-,    co- or terpolymer which  comprises contacting said monomer with a catalyst composition accord  ing to any one of the preceding claims.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
