<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0015428
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800917
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B01J-20/02 C01B-3/00 C22C-16/00 C25B-11/00 H01M-4/94 C25B-11/04 C01B-3/50 H01M-8/06 B01D-53/22 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
process and apparatus for separating hydrogen from fluids.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
hill eugene farrell<sep>hill, eugene farrell<sep>hill, eugene farrell11517 bianca avenuegranada hills california 91344us<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
hill eugene farrell<sep>hill, eugene farrell<sep>hill, eugene farrell11517 bianca avenuegranada hills california 91344us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
process and apparatus for separating hydrogen from flu­ ids by contacting them with a class of titanium-zirconium alloys  which are stabilized in the body centered cubic form, having at  least one clean surface, which has been coated with a metal  selected from the class of hydrogen permeable elements con­ sisting of; nickel, cobalt, iron, palladium, platinum, vanadium,  niobium and tantalum and their respective metallurgical alloys.   hydrogen is allowed to permeate through the coated alloy and  may be stored in the alloy or it may be removed continuously or  intermittently by providing a hydrogen pressure differential  across the entry and exit surfaces.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
process and apparatus for separating athdrort.en from fluids. this invention relates to a process and apparatus for separating hydrogen from fluids.the word hydrogen is used generically for all daree hydrogen isotopes; hydrogen whose chemical symbol is h, deuterium, d, and tritium, t. in practicing this invention the fundamental behavior of these isotopes is nearly identical. hydrogen separation as described in this invention is accomplished by the use of a class of titanium-zirconium alloys which have been stabilized in the body centered cubic crystalline form by the addition of suitable metallic elements and whose surface impedance to the entry or emergence of hydrogen has been substantially reduced by a corrosion resistant coating having a high permeability to hydrogen. the separation and purification of hydrogen is practiced in a wide range of industrial applications. typical applications include the cracking of ammonia and the subsequent separation of l-.yclloreen from nitrogen using a hydrogen permeable membrane, the diffusion and collection of tritium from a fusion reactor and the removal of hydrogen from sodium in a nuclear reactor by the use of a cold trap. a large number of physical and chemical hydrogen separation methods have been devised varying substantially in principle and physical form. itox-ever, many are based on the use of some material in which hydrogen is very soluble or permeable or both. heretofore, one of the most attractive techniques for separating hydrogen from other gases involves the use of a heated membrane of palladium. palladium is highly permcable to hydrogen but not to other gases so that a separation and purification can be effected by applying a pressure difference across the membrane and collecting pure hydrogen on the low pressure side. james b. hunter describes such a process in u.s. patent 2,7#3,56l. the high cost and low mechanical strength of palladium has resulted in many attempts to provide improved hydrogen permeable membranes. one such attempt is described by a.c. markrides et al in u.s. patent no. 3,350,846. ill this invention the high hydrogen permeability of group v-b metals was recognized. the reason why these metals are impractical for use in the presence of oxidizing gases was observed to be the rapid formation of an oxide film on the membrane surface which acts as a barrier to hydrogen entry or evolution. this defect was overcome by coating the group v-b metals with palladium to prevent the formation of the oxide film. although this invention provided some improvement in cost compared to palladium, the high density and difficult fabrication problems of the group v-b metals limited their application for hydrogen separation. these coated metals had the same limitation as palladium when used to separate hydrogen from fluids which are corrosive to palladium such as sodium or lithium. a means for providing a corrosion resistant membrane for use in sodium or other alkali metals at high temperature was described in my u,s, patent no 3f622°303s in this invention pure nickel was used as a corrosion resistant,' hydrogen permeable membrane, to cen oxidation of the nickel
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
   claims:       1. a process for separating hydrogen from other fluids by  contacting said fluids with a member of the class consisting  of titanium-zirconium alloys, stabilized in the body centered  cubic crystalline form, said alloys having at least one clean  surface coated with a metal or alloy based on a member of the  class consisting of palladium, nickel, cobalt, iron, vanadium  niobium or tantalum, and allowing hydrogen to permeate the  coated alloy at an elevated temperature.    2. a process as described in claim 1, wherein the coated    titanium-zirconium    alloy is heated to a   suitable-temperature     before contacting the hydrogen containing substance.    3. a process as described in claim 1 wherein said temperature  range is between about 1000c to about   7000c.       4. a process of separating hydrogen from gaseous mixture by  contacting it with a heated membrane comprising a body centered  cubic titanium-zirconium alloy, whose surfaces have been cleaned  and a thin coating of palladium applied to the clean surfaces.    5. a process of separating hydrogen from a gaseous mixture  according to claim 4 wherein said heated membrane is made from  a body centered cubic titanium-zirconium alloy comprising about   13%    by weight vanadium, about 11% by weight chromium, about   38     by weight aluminum, balance titanium, whose surfaces have been  cleaned by glow discharge sputtering in an inert gas and without  exposure sputter coated with palladium, said coating having a  thickness of less than about 1.5 microns.     6.   a    process as described in claim 4 in which the body centered   allo    contains about   11.58    mo, about   69.      zr.    about   4.58    sn, and balance ti.   7. a process of separating hydrogen from liquid alkali metals by contacting them, with an alloy selected from a class of body centered cubic titanium-zirconium alloys, said alloys having at least one clean surface coated with a metal or alloy based on nickel, cobalt, iron, vanadium, niobium or tantalum and allowing hydrogen to permeate the alloy.   8. a process of separating hydrogen from liquid sodium by contacting it with an alloy selected from a class of body centered cubic titanium-zirconium alloys, said alloys having at least one clean surface coated with a metal or alloy based on nickel, cobalt or iron.   9. a process of separating hydrogen from liquid sodium according to claim 8 wherein said body centered cubic alloy comprises about   138    v, about 11% cr, about   5    al, balance titanium, at least one clean surface which has been coated with a metal or alloy based on nickel, cobalt or iron, said coating having a thickness between about 0.1 and about 1.5 microns.   10. a process as described in claim 8 wherein the body centered cubic alloy comprises about   11t    mo, about 6% zr, about 4.5% sn, balance ti.      ji.    a   process    of removing hydrogen from liquid sodium by con   tnctinq    it with a hydrogen permeable membrane made from a body centered cubic alloy selected from a class of titanium-zirconium  alloys, whose surface impedance has been removed by sputtering in a high voltage glow discharge of an inert gas, and without allowing it to re-form, coating the surface exposed to sodium with 1.5 micron or less of nickel and coating the surface where the hydrogen emerges with 1.0 micron or less of palladium.   12. the process according to claim 1 wherein the cleaning and coating process is based on high temperature outgassing followed by evaporative coating.   13. the process according to claim 1 wherein the cleaning process is based on high temperature outgassing followed by ion   coating.      14. the process according to claim 1 wherein the cleaning and coating is based on electrochemical means.   :15. the process according to claim 1 wherein the surface cleaning is done by anodically etching the alloy in from about   5%    to about   10%    by weight of hf dissovled in glacial acetic acid at about   120 f,    followed by an electroless plating process.   16. the process according to claim 1 wherein the coated alloy contacts hydrogen isotopes in a vacuum enclosure.      17.    the process according to claim 1 wherein tritium is absorbed by a   member    of a class of body centered cubic titanium- zirconium alloys, whose cleaned surfaces have been coated with a thin coating of palladium.     18. the process according to claim 17 in which the absorbed tritium is subsequently removed by heating to a higher temperature under outgassing conditions.   19. the process of separating tritium from molten lithium using a coated membrane made from a member of a class of body centered cubic titanium-zirconium alloys whose surfaces have been cleaned to remove surface impedances to tritium permeation, and a thin coating of niobium or tantalum or their alloys applied to the surface exposed to lithium and a thin coating of palladium applied to the surface where the tritium emerges.   20. the process of separating hydrogen from an electrolyte in an electrolytic cell using an electrode selected from a class of body centered cubic titanium-zirconium alloys, said alloys having at least one clean surface coated with less than 1.5 micron of platinum.   21. apparatus for separting hydrogen from other fluids com   prising     an element fabricated from a member of the class consisting of   titanium-zirconium    alloys, stabilized in a body centered cubic crystalline form, said element having at least one clean surface coated with a metal or alloy based on a member of the class   curisisting    of palladium,   nickel,      cobalt,      iron,      valladiuitl,    niobium or tantalum;  means for heating said   element;     means for bringing the hydrogen containing fluid into   cctt      suith    said coated element to allow said hydrogen to   permeate    the coated alloy.     22. apparatus for separating hydrogen from a gases   s    mixture comprising:  a membrane fabricated from a body centered cubic titaniumzirconium having a surface cleaned and coated with a thin coating of palladium;  means for heating said membrane; and  means for bringing the hydrogen containing gaseous mixture into contact with said coated membrane.   23. apparatus according to claim 21 or 22 wherein said titaniumzirconium alloy comprises about 13% by weight vanadium, about   11t    by weight chromium, about 3% by weight aluminum, balance titanium, whose surfaces have been cleaned by glow discharge sputtering in an inert gas and without exposure sputter coated with palladium said coating having a thickness of less than about 1.5 microns.    24. apparatus according to claim 21 or 22 wherein said titaniumzirconium alloy comprises about 11.5%   arno,    about 6%   r,    about   4.5    sn and balance ti.   25. apparatus for separating tritium from molten lithium comprising:  a membrane fabricated from a body centered cubic titaniumzirconium alloy;  means for bringing the tritium containing molten lithium into contact with said membrane; and  said membrane having a surface cleaned to   rem      e    surface impedances to tritium permeation, and a thin   coating    of   niobium    or tantalum or their alloys applied to the surface exposed to lithium and a thin coating of palladium applied to the surface   where the tritium emerges.   26. apparatus for separating hydrogen from   zither      lids    comprising:  a pressure vessel;  a plurality of membranes in the form of tubes mounted in said pressure vessel and depending downwardly from a header plate, said tubes being closed at the lower ends thereof, said tubes being fabricated from a titanium-zirconium alloy stabilized in the body centered cubic crystalline form, said tubes being coated on at least one side thereof with a corrosion resistant coating having a high permeability to hydrogen,  heating means for heating at least a portion of said vessel;  said vessel having an inlet for the impure fluid towards the bottom thereof and an outlet for the pure hydrogen towards the top thereof above said header and an outlet for the purified fluid on the sidewall below the header.    27. apparatus for separating hydrogen from other fluids comprising:  a pipe sealed at its lower end and having at least one aperture serving as an inlet for impure fluid at the lower end   thereof     removable sealing means at the top of said pipe;  a   made)      positioned    centrally in the pipe; said mandrel being sealed and filled with an inert gas;  a coated titanium-zirconium alloy sheet wrapped around said mandrel in a spiral fashion, the layers of said sheet being separated by spacer means:  said pipe having an outlet towards the upper end thereof for purified fluid.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
