<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0017365
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19801015
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<main>F16K-37/00</main> F16K-37/00 G01M-13/00 G01M-19/00 G01L-5/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
apparatus for measuring the set pressure of a safety valve.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
crosby valve & gageus<sep>crosby valve & gage company<sep>crosby valve &amp; gage company43 kendrick streetwrentham massachusetts 02093us<sep>crosby valve & gage company  <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
thompson leonard j<sep>thompson, leonard j.<sep>thompson, leonard j.175 walnut roadwrentham massachusetts 02093us<sep>thompson, leonard j.<sep>thompson, leonard j.175 walnut roadwrentham massachusetts 02093us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
apparatus for measuring the set pressure of a safety  valve coupled to a pressure line, where the valve includes a  springloaded closure element which is normally biased to  close a port of the pressure line.  the apparatus includes a  position transducer (76) which generates a signal representa­ tive of the closure element position with respect to the port.   in addition, a forcer (34, 36, 40) is selectively operable to  apply a force ramp to the closure element (14) in the  direction opposite to the springloaded bias.  a force transduc­ er (64) generates a signal representative of the force applied  to the closure element.  a measurement cycle controller (8)  controls the measurement operation initially to activate the  forcer.  during the application of the force ramp to the closure  element, a test time is identified.  this test time occurs to  mark when the closure element has moved a predetermined  distance from its port position.  at that test time, the  controller detects the current pressure within the pressure  line and the force currently applied to the closure element by  the forcer, and then uses those detected values to generate a  signal representative of the set pressure of the valve.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
"app/iratus for measuring the set pressure o a safety valve" background of the disclosure the present invention relates to pressure line instrumentation, and more particularly to safety valve set pressure measuring devices. in the prior art, pressure lines are often designed with safety valves located at various positions along their length. the conventional valves, such as the type hb valves, manufactured by crosby valve and gage company, wrentham, massachusetts, include a closure element which is nominally biased against the port to seal the port. typically, this bias is provided by a springloaded assembly coupled to the closure element. the safety valve is designed so that when the pressure in the line is below a predetermined threshold, defined as the set pressure, the valve port is sealed. however, when the pressure within the line exceeds the set pressure, the line pressure is sufficient to overcome the spring bias so that the valve lifts from its seating in the valve port and the medium within the pressure line may freely escape. in the prior art, safety valves are designed for specifically desired set pressures for various applications. one problem in the use of such safety valves is the need to ensure that the set pressure for a valve, as installed, does not change with time, or, if the set point does change, this change may be measured. in general, the set points for safety valves are periodically tested. in one approach to measuring set points, the valve is removed from the pressure line assembly, fitted to a test jig, tested for set point, and then reinstalled or replaced as necessary. this approach, of course, necessitates a shutdown of the pressure line during set point testing. in an alternative approach known in the art, a valve may be fitted with an air-operated lifting motor (in the form of a diaphragm sealed, air cylinder having a known effective area) coupled to the closure element, and a pressure gauge. in operation, a test operator applies air pressure to the air motor by way of an air pressure regulator or a manual control valve. the resultant force from the motor is applied to the closure element to lift the closure element against the springloaded bias. when the lifting force from the motor together with the force from the pressure within the line is sufficient to overcome the springloaded bias force, the closure element lifts off its seat, accompanied by an audible leak (or "pop"). when the "pop" is detected by the operator, the air pressure applied to the air motor is measured, and a differential force value may be derived from a predetermined relationship between those parameters for the valve. this differential pressure may be added to the pressure within the line to yield the set pressure characteristic for the valve. while the audible "pop" which accompanies the lift of the closure element does provide a point at which a reliable set pressure measurement may be determined, this approach is not an acceptable test procedure in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:    1. apparatus for   measured    the set pressure of a valve coupled to the port of a pressure line, said valve having a closure element and a spring loaded means for biasing said closure element to a sealing position against said port, whereby said closure element is positioned to seal said port when the pressure within said line is less than said set pressure and said port is open otherwise, the apparatus comprising  forcer means (34, 36,  40) for applying a force ramp to said closure element in the direction opposite to said bias   fro    said springloaded means,  means (76) for detecting a test time   when    said closure element has moved a predetermined distance from said port in response to said force ramp,  means (64) for generating a force signal f representative of the force applied to said closure element by said forcer means at said test time, and  means (8) for generating a signal representative of the set pressure characteristic of said valve, said set pressure corresponding to the sum of the pressure in said line and the ratio   f/a5,    where as is representative of the effective area of said port.    2. apparatus as claimed in claim 1, including means for generating a pressure signal   sp    representative  of the pressure within the line at said test time.    3. apparatus as claimed in claim 1 or claim   2s    including  a position transducer (76) for generating a position signal representative of the position of said closure element between said first and second limit positions,  controller means (8) selectively operable to control a set point measurement cycle including  means for activating said forcer means,  means for monitoring said position transducer and said force transducer, and, in response to detection of said test time, for disabling said forcer means.    4. apparatus for monitoring the set pressure of a plurality of remote valves, each valve being coupled to an associated port in a pressure line, wherein each of said valves includes a closure element movable between a first limit position sealing its associated port and a second limit position opening its associated port, and includes a springloaded means for biasing said closure element towards said first limit position, the apparatus comprising  a set pressure test means (10) associated with and coupled to each of said remote valves, each of said  test means including  a position transducer   (7of)    for generating a position signal representative of the position of the closure element of said associated valve between said first and second limit positions,  forcer means (34,  36,   hid)    selectively operable to apply a force ramp to the closure element of said associated valve in the direction opposite to said bias provided by the springloaded means of said associated valve, and  a force   transducer    (64) for generating a force signal representative of the force applied to the closure element of said associated valve by said forcer means,  and a central controller   (8)    and associated means for interconnecting said controller and said remote valves said controller being selectively operable to control a set point measurement cycle for each of said remote valves, said controller including  means for activating said forcer means associated with said remote valves,  means for monitoring said position transducers and said force transducers associated with said remote valves,   and for detecting test times for each respective valve when the position signal associated with said  respective valve is representative of a predetermined displacement of the closure element of the associated valve from said first limit position, and, in response to said detection, for disabling said forcer means for said respective valve and computing a signal tp representative of the set pressure of said respective valve in accordance with    tp p sp s f/as    where f is representative of the force signal at said test time for said respective valve,   sp    is representative of the pressure in said pressure line at said respective valve, and as is representative of the effective area of said port of said respective valve.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
