<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0016437
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19801001
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
D05B-23/00 <main>D05B-37/10</main> D05B-39/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
automatic seaming method and apparatus for gored panty-hoses.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
takatori machinery works ltdjp  <sep>takatori machinery works ltd.<sep>takatori machinery works ltd.no. 1-31, asahiminami-machiyamatotakada-shi nara-kenjp<sep>takatori machinery works ltd.<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
senba rikichi<sep>senba, rikichi<sep>senba, rikichic/o senba machinery co. ltd. 6, tani-machi 7-chomeminami-ku osaka-shi osaka-fujp<sep>senba, rikichi<sep>senba, rikichic/o senba machinery co. ltd. 6, tani-machi 7-chomeminami-ku osaka-shi osaka-fujp<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
automatic seaming of gore pieces (10) to respective  incomplete panty-hoses (7a) while four sets of suction  assembly (201) travel in an intermittent fashion from station  (i) to station (iv) along a prescribed circular path of travel in  order to produce gored panty-hoses different automatic  operations being almost concurrently carried out at different  stations.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
imboved autoitlhtic seaming method and apparatus for gored parry-hoses background of the invention the present invention relates to improved method and apparatus for automatically seaming a gore piece to the inside thigh section of a panty-hose, and more particularly relates to improvement in the system for seaming a gore piece to the inside thigh section of a panty-hose in an almost automatic fashion. the conventional system for producing a gored panty-hose in general tvó-staged seaming operations. in the first stage, two leg sections and a panty section are seamed together by the so-called skip seaming whilst leaving an unseamed opening in the inside thigh section of an incomplete panty-hose. next in the second stage, s separate gore piece is fitted to the above-described thigh section opening and its fringe is seamed to the unseamed sliced ringe of the thigh section, which defined the opening, in order to form a complete panty-hose. due to the comclicated form of the seaming line for coupling of the gore piece with the sliced fringe on the inside thigh section, the second staged seaming operation is extremely complicated and difficult to practice successfully. for this reason, the seaming of the gore piece has conventionally depended upon manual operation by exert orators. this naturally causes low productivity of the second stage seaming operation, increasedhuman labour and resultant high increase in the production cost of gored panty-hoses. in addition, it is very difficult even for a single operator to constantly seam a gore piece to the correct position in the thigh section in a correct manner since the seaming is dependent upon manual operation. this connects to inter-products variance in quality of panty-hoses so produced. when different panty-hoses are produced by different operators, the variance is further amplified since the inter-products variance is accompanied with interoperators variance. thus, in the conventional production of gore panty-hoses, one cannot expect uniform quality of the products. in order to avoid this advantage, a number of automatic seaming systems for gored panty-hoses have bee proposed. due to the unavoidable presence of the above-described complicated seaming line, however, one cannot expect reliable operations of the apparatuses for practicing such automatic seaming systems. in order to obtain high reliability in operation, one needs to adopt an extre-nely complicated design for such an apparatus. thus, it is the state of the art that none of the conventionally proposes systems has been able to carry out the second stage automatic seaming moderation with appreciably sufficient results. summary op the invention it is the basic object of the oresent invention to enable almost automatic seaming of a ore piece to the thigh section of an incomplete -zanty-ose at remarkably high production efficiency. it is another object of the resent invention to produce gored pelty-hoses with low production cost and extremely small inter-products variance in quality. it is the other object of the present invention to provide an automatic apparatus bf a simple construction and capable of carrying-out the aobve-described second stage seaming operation with high reliability
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
   claibis      1. an automatic seaming method for a gored panty-hose comprising  holding an incomplete panty-hose on a suction assembly by provisional application of pneumatic suction   with    the sliced fringe defining its inside thigh   opening    being exposed outside,  feeding, in a horizontal state,  a gore piece of a prescribed pattern in position to said inside   thigh    opening of said incomplete panty-hose,  forming at least one longitudinal cut in said sliced fringe of said incomplete panty-hose,  flattening said sliced fringe into superimposition   with    the fringe of said gore piece,  seaming said fringe of said gore piece with said sliced fringe of said incomplete panty-hose in order to form a complete panty-hose,    removing said complete panty-hose off said suction assembly by means of pneumatic suction, and  repeating said listed operations in the described sequence.   2. automatic seaming method as claimed in claim 1 in   which     said at least one cut is formed by means of heat cutting.   (continued)  3. automatic seaming method as claimed in claim 1 or 2 in which  said   listed    operations are completed as said suction assembly circulates along a prescribed endless circulating path.   4. automatic seaming method as claimed in claim 1 in which  said flattening of said sliced fringe is carried out by means of pneumatic blow.   5.   automatic seamillg    method as claimed in claim 1 in   which     said flattening of said sliced fringe is carried out by means of pneumatic suction.   6. automatic   seaming    method as claimed in claim 1 or 2 further comprising    'detecting,.in    advance to said seaming, by   photo-electric    manner whether or not seam lines on either sides of said sliced fringe of said incomplete panty-hose are in correct  positions, and  registering said seam lines at said correct positions   when    they are off said correct positions.      7.    automatic seaming method as claimed in claim 1, 2 or 6 in   which     said sequential operations are carried out at four different stations arranged around a fixed center at subs   tantially    equal intervals, and  said suction assembly travels   with    said incomplete panty-hose from the first to third station and with said complete panty-hose from the third to fourth station, both in intermittent fashion having a   dell    at each station.   8. automatic seaming method as claimed in claim 7 in   which     said holding of said incomplete panty-hose is performed at said first station,  said feeding of said   ore    piece is performed at said second station,    said seaming   os    performed at said third station, and  said removing is performed at said fourth station.   9. automatic seaming method as claimed in   claim      8 in    which  said listed operations are performed   substantially    concurrently at different stations   within    a common dwell.   10. automatic seaming   apparatus    for gored panty-hoses   conprising     a horizontal operation table having at   least four    separate operation stations arranged along   a-g-iven    circulating path of travel at substantially equal intervals,  at least four suction   assembiies-arranged-over    said operation table, and each   adapted    for holding an incomplete panty-hose,  each including a vertical suction tube provided with a bottom   flange    and at least one inner hook,  means for concurrently driving said four suction assemblies for travel from station to- station   along    said path  of travel in an intermittent fashion   with    dwells so that each said suction assembly rests at any station during said   dells,     a gore piece feeder assembly arranged facing a second station and adapted for sequentially feeding gore pieces of a prescribed pattern, one at a time, in an intermittent fashion,  a gore piece transfer assembly interposed between said second station and said feeder assembly and adapted for transferring, in a horizontal state,  each said gore piece fed by said feeder assembly to each said suction assembly located at said second station during each said dwell,  a heat cut assembly arranged   facing    said second station and adapted for forming at least one longitudinal cut in the sliced fringe of each said incomplete panty-hose held by said suction assembly,  means for flattening said sliced fringe of said income plete panty-hose into a superimposed state with the fringe of said gore piece,  a flat guide plate extending   between    said second and a third station and flush   with    the bottom face of said gore  piece superimposed with said fringe of said gore piece,  a suction tube driver assembly arranged in said third station and adapted for driving said suction tube of said suction assembly in said third station for a 360 degrees  <rti     id=38.1> no wation,     a   sewing      machine    arranged in   said-    third station, provided   with    a sewing table flush with said guide   plate,    and adapted for   seaming    said two superimposed fringes together during said 360 degrees rotation in order to form a completed gored pahty-hose during each said   dwell,     a removing   assembly    arranged facing a   fourth      station    and adapted for   removing,    by means of pneumatic suction, said complete gored panty-hose off   said suctian      assemk'y-    located at said fourth station,  and  a pneumatic suction source connected to said transfer assembly, removing assembly and each said suction   assembly    located at said first station 11. automatic seaming apparatus as claimed in claim 10 in   which       said operation table takes the form of a round table having said circulating path of travel along its periphery,  said driving means includes a vertical cylindrical main shaft which is axially rotatable in an intermittent fashion such that each rotation covers   93    degrees, and a horizontal carrier   disc    mounted atop said main shaft, and  said four suction assemblies are disposed to the bottom of said   disc    at equal intervals along its periphery.    12.   automatic    seaming apparatus as claimed in claim 10 in   which     the interior of each said suction assembly is connected to the suction terminal of said suction source via a manually   sniftable    valve and said main shaft.   13. automatic seaming apparatus as claimed in claim 10 in which said gore piece feeder assembly includes  a feed reel of a gore piece material band,  means for delivering said gore piece band from said   feed reel in an intermittent fashion over a length corresponding to each said gore piece at a time,  a pair of cutters arranged   downstreamly of    said feed reel and adapted for   deliniating.    each delivered section   qf    said gore piece band, and  a cutter arranged   downstreamly    of said pair of cutters and adapted for cutting each said delivered section into each said gore piece.      14. mtomatic    seaming apparatus as claimed in   claimed10    in which said gore piece transfer assembly includes  a vertical, cylindrical, center support   shaft    axially rotatable in an intermitted fashion such that   each rotation    covers 180 degre-es,  a pair of double drums held by said support   shaft    at opposite   diametric    positions,  the interior of each said double drum being connected to the suction terminal of said suction source via said support shaft,  a perforated semi-circular plate closing the   to      opening    of each said double drum and having a top face  flush   with    that of said guide plate,  means for elastically pushing said drum   downwards,-and     means for thrusting up said drum against the pressure by said elastic pushing means to an extent such that a gore piece placed on said semi-circular plated, is placed in pressure   cpntact    with said sliced fringe of said incomplete panty-hose held by said suction assembly.      15.    automatic seaming apparatus as claimed in claim 10 in which said heat cut assembly includes  at least one heat cutter,  at least one   movable    arm holding, at its free end, said heat cutter, and  means for driving said arm for movement between operative and in operative positions so that said heat cutter contacts, in said operative position, said sliced fringe of said incomplete panty-hose held by said suction assembly.   16. automatic seaming apparatus as claimed in claim 10 in   which    said   fletterning    means includes    at least one of an air ejection nozzle   and      affair    suction nozzle closely facing said sliced fringe of said incomplete panty-hose located at said third section.   17.   automatic    seaming apparatus as claimed in claim 10 in which said suction tube driven   assembly    includes  a gear fixedly inserted over said suction tube of each said suction   assembly,    and  a drive   motor aanged    in   said      laird    station and provided, on its output shaft, with   a    gear in   engagement    with said   gear    on said suction tube.   18.   automatic    seaming apparatus as calimed   in claim      19    further comprising  means   arranged    facing said second station   and--fr-    detecting, in photoelectric manner,   w-hether    o-r not seat lines on either sides of said sliced fringe of said   incomplete      -anty-    hose held by said suction assembly are in correct positions,  said suction tube of said suction assembly   being    rotated by aid detecting means until said seam lines are  registered at said correct positions.    19. automatic   seaming    apparatus as claimed in claim 10 in   which    said removing assembly includes  a delivery pipe connectable at its one end to the top opening   of -each said    suction assembly located at said fourth section,  a delivery mouth coupled to the other end of said delivery pipe, and  a suction pipe coupled at its one end to said delivery mouth and at its the other end to the suction terminal of said suction source.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
