<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0016744
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19801001
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B23B-29/00 B23B-29/034 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
boring device.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
sandvik abse<sep>sandvik aktiebolag<sep>sandvik aktiebolag811 81 sandvikense <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
faber kurt heinrich albert erichse   <sep>lagerholm kurtde<sep>faber, kurt heinrich albert erich<sep>lagerholm, kurt<sep>faber, kurt heinrich albert erichjohan östbergs väg 8s-811 60 sandvikense<sep>lagerholm, kurtmuldweg 1d-6945 hirschberg-grossachsende<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
the present invention relates to a boring device for  boring internal surfaces of hollow workpieces of the kind  which comprises radially adjustable insert-provided holders  (19), there being provided pressure means, such as steering  pins (32) so as to effect radial adjustment of the insert holder  from an outer active working position to an inactive position.   the radial adjustment occurs by having each insert holder  via said steering pins supported against a bushing (29) of  non-circular cross section actuatable by a shaft member (27)  centered within the bushing, said bushing upon its rotation  effecting said radial adjustment.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
boring device the present invention relates to a boring device for boring the internal surfaces of workpieces of the kind which comprises radially displaceable insert-provided holding members. the invention is specifically concerned with the type of boring head used.for skiving, hereinafter called skiving tool for instance for tubes that should have a bearing surface mating with' hydraulic cylinders. during such working the tool is axially advanced through the workpiece. the skiving tool can be provided with one or several guide pads adapted to support and guide the tool along the bore in the workpiece. usually there is provided a combined tool for boring and roller burnishing for finishing the internal surface of the bore to be produced. this burnishing operation is effected when the skiving tool is axially returned to its initial position before starting each processing cycle. it is to be understood that each insert on the skiving head has to be withdrawn before such burnishing in order not to cause damages on the i#jtern# surface of said bore previously produced. the known boring head arrangements all have considerable die- advantages, primarily due to the dismounting of the i##±r## from the boring head before burnishing is to occur. simultaneously it has not to a desirable extent been found possible to provide rapid and simple radial adjustment of the inserts on the boring head. it is also desirable being able to provide adjustment of releasable fastened inserts of a boring head only by mechanical means. it is an object of the present invention to provide a boring tool which avoids the above-mentioned disadvantages of such tools known in the art. with these and other objects in view the insert package of the tool is able of being radially reciprocated in a new manner, which enables improved possi bilitles of maintaining one and same diameter throughout the entire length of the bore to be produced. the object of the invention is obtained by providing a boring head provided with radially adjustable insert holders and one or several guide pads axially extending along the periphery of said boring aead, the improvement being the arrangement of each insert holder so as to abut pressing means arranged in contact with a bushing having a bore of non-circular shape withir which an axially movable shaft is received with radial clearance, there additionally being means provided so as to cause radial adjustment of said insert holder upon axial movement or said shaft, said adjustment occurring between a working position and a radially inner inactive position of said insert holder. the bushing can advantageously be oval in shape whilst jointly rotatable with said shaft so as to provide radial adjustment between said working and inactive positions. the invention will now be described more in detail in connection with the accompanying drawings, illustrating a preferred embodiment of the invention. fig. 1 is an axial sectional view of the tool according to the invention, fig. 2 is an enlarged view of a detail of fig. 1, fig. 3 is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims      1      e      bor    device, comprising a boring head provided with at least   one   adially adjustable insert   holder.(l9)    and one or   several    guide pads (12) adapted to abut and slide along the surface of the bore to be machined, c h a r a c t e r   i    z e d in, that each insert holder is arranged to abut pressing means (32) arranged in contact with a bushing (29) having a bore (28) or non-circular shape within which an   axially    movable shaft (24) is received with radial clearanee (30), there being provided means   (c)    so as to cause radial adjustment of the insert holder (19) upon axial movement of said shaft,  said adjustment occurring between a working position and a radially inner inactive position of said holder.   2. boring device as defined in claim 1, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the axially displaceable shaft (24) is jointly rotatable with the bushing (29), said bushing (29) having an oval-shaped mantle surface.   3. boring device as defined in claim 1, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the shaft (24) has an axial   extesf    (27, 50) of square cross-section received in the bore# (28) of the bushing (29), said bore (28) being rectangular in cross-section.      4. boring    device as defined in any of claims 1-3, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in, that the boring head (10) is provided with two diametrally opposed insert holders (19), said adjustment means (32) comprising two steering pins (32) in radially opposite positions of said bushing (29) to perform radial adjustment of said holder (19).   5. boring device as defined in any of claims 1-4, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in, that the boring head (10) is provided with a radial set screw (25) adapted to engage a peripheral slot (26) in the mantle'surface of the shaft   (24) such that said screw (25) following the path of said slot (26) upon axial movement of said shaft (24).   6. boring device as defined in any of the claims 1-4, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in, that the shaft (24) is provided in   twospieces,    an outer member (45) and an inner member (46), said inner member (46) being axially and rotably ad   3unstable    uponlrotary movement of said outer member (45).   7. boring device as defined in claim 6, c h a r a c t e r   t    z e d in, that the outer shaft member (45) is provided with an axial recess (51) leaving a mantle surface of   halfspherical    shape, a correspondingly shaped portion of said inner shaft member (46) engaging complementarily in said recess (51), both said members being supported in the bore (47) of a tubular member (48) threadably engaged with the boring head (10).   8. boring device as defined in claim 6 or 7, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in, that the outer shaft member (45) is provided with a transversely extending slot (52) for engagement with a first steering member (25) in the boring head (10), said inner shaft member (46) being provided with an l-slot (53) for engagement with a second   steering    member (54) in the boring head.   9. boring device as defined in any of the claims 6-8, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in, that a spring member (55) is arranged axially between the portion of said inner member (46) received in said tubular member, and the bushing (29), so as to exert axial movement to the inner member after rotation thereof and radial removal of the insert holder (19).   10. boring device as defined in any of the claims 1-9, c h a r a c t   e    r i z e d in, that the insert holder (19)  is pivotally   supported    on an axially extending   axls    (21) 11. boring device as defined in any of the claims 1-10, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that a spring (42)   ic    ved in the boring head (10) in a position adjacent to the insert holder   (19),    one end of said spring   engaging      said    holder so as to urge it radially inwards 12.  boring device as defined in any of the   claims      1-    c h a r.a c t e r i z e d in, that the insert   h    older (19) is provided with radial adjustment means comprising a radial setting screw (45) engaging a slot (44) in the   hol-    der such that inscrewing said screw (45) causes the   radially    outer insert-holding portion of said holder (19) to   move    radially outwards.   13. boring device as defined in any of the   preceo)jr'g    claims, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the insert   (1)    gentially oriented in said insert holder (19).  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
