<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0006425
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800109
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B29D-30/08 B29D-30/06 B60C-9/18 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
pneumatic tyre and method of manufacturing it.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
firestone tire & rubber cous<sep>the firestone tire & rubber company<sep>the firestone tire &amp; rubber company1200 firestone parkwayakron, ohio 44317us<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
alliger glenus<sep>alliger, glen<sep>alliger, glen189 merriman roadakron ohio 44303us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
pneumatic tire having a cast body of viscoelastic ma­ terial, a carbon black-reinforced rubber tread (11) and a  girdle member (17).  the cast body is continuous and ex­ tends from one bead area to the other encompassing the  entire sidewalls of the tire and a crown portion (14) radially  inward of the rubber tread.  the girdle member is conti­ guous with the crown portion of the cast body, is compri­ sed of a layer of circumferential cords, has a poisson's ra­ tio substantially equal to the poisson's ratio of the crown  portion of the cast body contiguous to it and a modulus  greater than the modulus of the crown portion of the cast  body contiguous to it.  the girdle may be totally embedded  in the crown portion of the cast body or it may be located  at the junction of the crown portion of the cast body and  the rubber tread.  an adhesive is provided at the interface  of the cast body and the rubber tread to facilitate adhe­ sion.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
pneumatic tire background of the invention pneumatic tires having cast bodies of plastic materials (polyurethane) and carbon black-reinforced conventional rubber treads are known (u.s. 3,208,500 and 4,006,767). originally, cast tires had cast treads, as opposed to conventional rubber treads; however, it is now known that cast tires require conventional rubber treads to have adequate traction and tread wear. it is also known to construct such tires with breakers or inextensible belts in the tread area of the tires (u.s. 3,775,528 and british 1,118,428). even though such prior constructions maintained dimensional stability and adequate handling during operation, such tires were unacceptable due to inadequate service durability under normal operating conditions. the dimensional stability of a cast body tire has long been known to be a major drawback. this feature manifests itself by growth of the tire; that is, an increase in the overall diameter of the tire and/or the section width of the tire and a decrease in the tread radius of the tire upon inflation and use. several constructions have been successful to control this growth. however, these constructions all have inadequate service durability and do not result in tires that will realize high mileages. this invention has overcome this deficiency and has resulted in a tire construction that had adequate dimensional stability and excellent service life as evidenced by indoor wheel tests. the construction of this invention maintains dimensional stability during service; that is, the overall diameter of the tire does not increase significantly and the tread radius of the tire does not significantly change. tread radius measures the radius of a circle which would contain the configuration of the road-engaging surface as an arc. a lower number indicates a smaller radius and a greater curvature in the circle and its corresponding arc; a rounder road-engaging surface. this is not a desired result; it is desired that the tread radius remain unchanged as it significantly effects wear and traction. the use of an inextensible belt in a cast body tire to attain dimensional stability has led to additional problems. these additional problems are separations in the tire at the junction of the belt and the cast body which result in a short service life. the reason for this deficiency is that such teachings do not specifically define the specific structure of the components in the belt and haven't realized that the poisson's ratio of the belt and the cast body contiguous or adjacent the belt must be substantially equal to prevent separation problems. absent a definition, such constructions must be assumed to comprise standard inextensible belt constructions. these constructions would consist of two or more layers or plies of parallel cords in which the cords form an angle of between 10 and 500 to the circumferential centerline of the tire with the angles in adjacent plies being in opposite directions. such standard constructions would be very stiff and would have a poisson's ratio much greater than that of the contiguous or adjacent cast body. this difference results in a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:    1. a pneumatic tire comprising an annular road-engaging tread, sidewall connecting the lateral edges of said tread to annular bead areas, a cast body extending continuously from one said bead area to the other encompassing the sidewalls and the crown area radially inward of said tread, a girdle member contiguous to said crown area of said cast body, and an adhesive layer located at the interface between said crown area of said cast body and said tread, said tread comprised of a carbon black-reinforced rubber compound, said body and bead areas comprised of a viscoelastic material having a young's modulus of between 5,000 and 15,000 psi, said bead areas containing an annular, inextensible, bead member, said girdle member comprising a layer of parallel, substantially circumferentially   orier       led,    reinforcing cords,  said girdle member and said crown area of said body having substantially equal poisson's ratios and said girdle member having a modulus higher than the modulus of said crown area of said body.    2. the tire of claim 1 wherein said girdle member is totally embedded in said crown area of said cast body.    3. the tire of claim 1 wherein said girdle member is located at the junction between said tread and said crown area of said cast body.      4. the tire according to one or more of the preceeding claims, wherein said girdle member is embedded in a carbon black-reinforced rubber skim compound and wherein said viscoelastic material is polyurethane.    5. the tire of claim 1 wherein said poisson's ratios of said viscoelastic material are less than one, particularly less than 0.50 and preferably between   0.40    and 0.50.    6. the tire of claim 1 wherein said girdle member has a modulus ¯eater than 20,000 psi, particularly greater than 100,000 psi, and preferably greater   thar    150,000 psi with the girdle member comprising a single, continuous, spiral wound cord.    7. the tire of claim 1 wherein said girdle member has a poisson's ratio of 0.50 and a modulus of at least 100,000 psi and said crown area of said body is a polyurethane rubber having a poisson's ratio between 0.40 and   0.50.       8. the tire of claim 1 wherein said crown portion of said cast body is comprised of a different viscoelastic material than the remainder of the cast body.    9. in the method of manufacturing a-pneumatic tire comprising and annular road-engaging carbon blackreinforced rubber tread, sidewalls connecting the lateral  edges of said tread to annular beads, a cast body extending continuously from one bead to the other encompassing the sidewalls and the crown area radially inward of said tread, a girdle member embedded in said crown area of said cast body and an adhesive layer located at the interface between said crown area of said cast body and said tread, the improvement comprising the steps   -    placing the girdle member on the outer periphery of an annular core wherein said outer periphery has a circumference equal to the circumference of the girdle member in the finished tire, locating a precured carbon black, reinforced tread in the tread retaining ring of a tire mold,  applying an adhesive to the inner periphery of said precured tread, aligning the core member-girdle member assembly in said mold, injecting a viscoelastic material into said mold to form the cast body of said tire, curing said viscoelastic material, removing said core, filling the cavity radially underneath said girdle member with a viscoelastic material, and curing said viscoelastic material in said cavity.    10. in the method of manaufacturing a pneumatic tire comprising an annular road-engaging carbon blackreinforced rubber tread, sidewalls connecting the lateral edges of said tread to annular beads, a cast body extending continuously from one bead to the other encompassing said sidewalls and the crown area radially inward of said tread, a girdle member embedded in a carbon black-reinforced rubber skim compound located at the junction between said tread and said crown area of said cast body and an adhesive layer located at the interface between said crown area of said cast body and said skim compound, the improvement comprising the steps of forming a layer of parallel, concentric hoops of a reinforcing cord with a diameter equal to the desired diameter of the girdle member in the  tire embedded in said rubber skim compound, applying an uncured,   conventional rubber tread strip on the top of said girdle member to yield a preassembly of said girdle member and said tread, curing said preassembly in an appropirate mold to form an annular, precured preassembly of said girdle member and said tread, placing said cured preassembly in a tire casting mold at the appropriate location in the tread ring area, applying an adhesive to the inner circumference of said preassembly, placing the annular bead members in the casting mold at the appropriate locations, injecting the viscoelastic material into said mold to form said cast body and curing said viscoelastic material.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
