<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0016314
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19801001
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
G10L-11/00 G11B-27/10 H04N-5/00 G09B-7/00 G09B-7/04 G10L-21/06 G10L-15/00 G10L-21/00 A63F-13/00 H04N-5/765 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
method and apparatus for voice dialogue between a video picture and a human.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
best robert m<sep>best, robert macandrew<sep>best, robert macandrew1616 country club parkway lehigh, florida 33936 us <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
best robert macandrew<sep>best, robert macandrew<sep>best, robert macandrew1616 country club parkwaylehigh, florida 33936us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a video entertainment system by which human viewers  conduct simulated voice conversations with screen actors in a  prerecorded branching movie shown on a television screen  (27).  a voice-recognition unit (38) recognizes a few words  spoken by a viewer at branch points in the movie.  a different  set of words may be used at each branch point.  a hand-held  unit (41) displays prompting messages to inform each viewer  of the words that can be recognized at each branch point.  a  scheduling unit (35) assembles cueing commands specifying  which video frames, cartoon frames, messages, and audio  portions are to be presented at which instant of time.  a cueing  unit (12) executes these commands by generating precisely  med video and audio signals, so that a motion picture with  lip-synchronized sound is presented to the viewer who voc­ ally influences the course of the movie.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
technical field of the invention this invention relates to video systems, voice-recognition devices. branching movies, and picture/sound synchronization. background of the invention while watching a prior-art sound movie. a viewer often experiences a vicarious sense of involvement. but the viewer cannot actively participate in the movie, because the viewer cannot talk with the screen actors and have them reply responsively. applying prior-art voice-recognition techniques to control prior-art branching movices would not provide a natural conversational dialog because of the following problem: if the number of words uhich a viewer of any age and sex can speak and be unerstood by the apparatus is sufficiently large to permit a natural conversation, then prior-art voite-recognition techniques are unreliable. conversely, if the number of words is restricted to only a few words td make voice recognition reliable. then natural conversation would not result. it is also necessary for the picture to be responsive to a viewer's voice and be synchronized with the spoken reply. these problems are not addressed in the prior art. an example of m prior-art branching movie is shown in u.s. patent 3,960,38 itled "light ray gun and target changing projectors. this system uses a pair of film projectors which present two alternatives (hit or missy at each branch point. an example of a prior-art device for interactive voice dialog is shown in u.s. patent 4,016,540. this device does not present a motion picture. an example of a prior-art video editing system is shown in u.s. patent 9, 72l,757. this system displays a sequence of video excerpts specified by a control program of stored videodisc addresses which comprise a sequential (not branching) movie. to change this sequence the editor alters the program. in the present invention the viewer does not alter the program. summary of the invention this invention is a video entertainment system by which one or more human viewers influence the course of a prerecorded movie and conduct a simulated two-way voice conversation with screen actors in the movie. viewers talk to the screen actors and the actors talk back and talk responsively. the system thus provides an illusion of individualized and active participation in the movie as if each viewer were a participant in a real-life drama. to simplify performing of voice-recognition on the voices of different viewers. regardless of age and sex. while at the same time using a large vocabulary of computer-recognizable words, the words to be recognized at each branch point in the movie are restricted to two or a few words such as 'yes" and "attacks. the words which a viewer may use at each branch point will often be different from words used at other branch points. the apparatus informs the viewers of what words they can use by displaying prompting messages on a hand-held display device and/or with prompting-words spoken by a screen actor. the display device also contains a microphone into which a viewer speaks a selected word at each branch point. to permit a viewer to ask questions or
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims    1. a method of simulating a voice   conversation    between a previously recorded sound movie and a human viewer of the movie, comprising the steps of:  presenting to said viewer a previously recorded first scene in said movie linked   t    a plurality of previously recorded second scenes therein,   the    first scene including a race and voice speaking words to elicit from the viewer a spoken response   correspdnding    to one second scene in said plurality   thereof;     analyzing said spoken response to determine which second scene in said plurality thereof corresponds to said spoken response;  and  presenting to the viewer sad corresponding second scene including said ace and voice speaking words responsive to said spoken response, thereby simulating a voice   conversation    between the viewer and the   movie     2. a method of   simulating    a voice conversation between a previously recorded sound movie and a human viewer of the   movie,      comprising    the steps   of: :     presenting to said viewer a first scene in   sail,    movie   linked      to    a plurality of second scenes therein;  presenting to said   viewer      a    plurality   of    messages, each message   corresponding    to one second scene in said plurality thereof and each second scene including spoken words   responsive    to the corresponding   'lcssage,    said messages   ellci9ina    from   sa.'.d    viewer a   spoken    response; ;  analyzing said spoken response to determine which selected message in said   plurality    of messages includes a word which   rese.,bj.es    a portion of said spoken response; and  presenting to said viewer a second scene in said plurality thereof   which    corresponds to said selected message. the second scene including spoken words responsive to said   selected    message, thereby simulating a voice conversation between   the      viewer    and the movie.      3. a method of simulating a voice conversation between a previously recorded sound movie and a human viewer of the movie. comprising the steps of:  presenting to said viewer a first scene in said movie linked to a plurality of second scenes therein;  presenting o said viewer a plurality of   messages.      each message   correspondiq    to one second scene in said plurality thereof and each second scene including spoken words responsive to the corresponding message;  receiving from said viewer a response signal corresponding to a selected message in said plurality of messages;  presenting to said viewer a voice sound including words in said selected   message    and  presenting to said viewer a second scene in said plurality thereof which corresponds to said selected message and which includes spoken words responsive to said selected message and said voice sound. thereby simulating a voice conversation between the viewer and the movie.    4. a method of simulating a voice conversation between a previously recorded sound movie and a human viewer of the movie, comprising the steps   of:      presenting    to said viewer a first scene in said movie linked to a plurality of alternative video portions and audio portions of a second scene in said movie;  presenting to said viewer a plurality of alternative verbal signals, each alternative verbal signal corresponding to one video portion and one audio portion in said plurality thereof including voice sounds responsive to the corresponding verbal signal;  receiving from said viewe-r a response signal corresponding to a selected verbal signal in said plurality thereof;  following the receiving of said response signal.   scheduling for a point in time a video portion of said  second scene which corresponds to said selected verbal signal;  following the receiving of said response signal, scheduling for a point in time an audio portion of said second scene which corresponds to said selected verbal signal; and  presenting to said viewer at the respective scheduled points in time said schduled video portion and said scheduled audio portion of said second scene including voice sounds responsive to said selected verbal signal. thereby simulating a conversation between the viewer and the movie.    5. an apparatus for simulating a voice conversation between a human operator of the apparatus and a previously recorded sound movie. the apparatus comprising:  means for controlling presentation   of    a first portion of said sound movie which is linked to a plurality of second portions   thereof.    the first, portion including voice sounds to elicit from an operator of the apparatus a spoken response corresponding to one second portion in said plurality of second portions   thereodi    and  means for analyzing said spoken response and determining therefrom which second portion of said sound movie corresponds to said spoken response.    said controlling means further controlling presentation   oi    the second portion of said sound movie which corresponds to said spoken response and which includes voice sounds responsive to the spoken response, thereby simulating a voice conversation between the movie and the operator.    6. the apparatus of claim 5, further comprising:  means for displaying a plurality of alternative responses for speaking by said operator and which correspond to said second portions of the sound movie.   thereby prompting the operator to make a spoken response  which said analyzing means distinguishes from other alternative responses in said displayed plurality.    7. an apparatus for simulating a voice conversation between a human operator of the apparatus and a sound movie, the apparatus   conprising:     means for controlling presentation of scenes in said sound movie, a first scene therein being linked to a plurality of second scenes therein, the first scene including voice sounds to elicit from the operator a spoken response corresponding to one second scene in   said    plurality thereof;  means for 'analyzing said spoken response and determining therefrom which second scene in said sound movie corresponds to said spoken responses and  means for scheduling for a point in time a second scene in said sound movie which corresponds to said spoken response and which includes voice sounds responsive to said spoken response.    said controlling means further controlling presentation of said   schduled    second scene at said point in time. thereby simulating a voice conversation between the movie and the operator.     8. the apparatus of claim 7, wherein each scene in said sound movie comprises video portions and audio portions. the apparatus further comprising means for   s scting    from a plurality of alternative audio portions one selected audio portion which includes said voice sounds responsive to the operator's spoken response.    said scheduling means further scheduling said selected audio portion for a point in time in synchronism with one video portion. thereby synchronizing said one video portion with one of said plurality of alternative audio portions depending on the operator's spoken response.    9. the apparatus   of    claim   8,    further comprising:  means for   schedulinq    presentation-of said video   portions in accordance with a branching data structure of digital pointers which specify alternative sequences of said video portions, and wherein said analyzing means includes means for selecting a branch in said data structure in accordance with a digital pointer corresponding to said spoken response.    10. the apparatus of claim   7.    wherein each scene in said sound movie comprises video portions and audio portions, and wherein the audio portions include a plurality of alternative spoken names. the apparatus further comprising:  means for selecting from a plurality of alternative audio portions one selected audio portion which includes the name of said operator  said scheduling means further scheduling said selected audio portion for a point in time in synchronism with one video portion, thereby synchronizing said one video portion with said   operator {5    name.    11. an apparatus for simulating a voice conversation between a human operator of the apparatus and a sound movie, the apparatus comprising:  means for controlling presentation of scenes in said sound movie, a first scene therein   boxing    linked to a plurality of second scenes therein. the first scene including voice sounds to elicit from the operator a response corresponding to one second scene in said plurality thereof;  means for displaying a plurality of alternative verbal responses which correspond to said second scenes   bf    the sound movie,  means for receiving from the operator a response signal which corresponds to a selected verbal response in said displayed plurality thereof;  and  means for generating a voice signal including words displayed in said selected verbal response. thereby simulating the operator's side of a voice conversation,    said controlling means further controlling presentation of the second scene of said sound movie which corresponds to said selected response and which includes voice sounds responsive to the selected   response.    thereby simulating a voice conversation between the movie and the operator.      12.    an apparatus for simulating a voice conversation between a   human- operator    of the apparatus and a sound movie, the apparatus comprising:  means for controlling presentation of scenes in said sound movie, a first scene therein being linked to a plurality of second scenes therein, the first scene including voice sounds to elicit from the operator a response corresponding to one second scene in said plurality thereof;  means for   co.mmunicaving    to the operator a plurality of alternative verbal responses which correspond to said second scenes of the sound movie;  means for receiving from the operator a response signal which corresponds to a selected verbal response in said communicated plurality thereof;  and  means   or    scheduling for a point in time a second scene in said   sod    move which corresponds to said response signal and which includes voice sounds   responsive    to said selected verbal   response,'     said controlling means further   controlling    presentation   of    said scheduled second scene at said point in time, thereby simulating a voice conversation between the movie and the operator.    13. an apparatus for simulating a voice conversation between a human operator of the apparatus and a sound movie, the apparatus comprising:  means for generating, an audio ,signal of a voice speaking a   plurality    of   word      3    elicit from a human operator a spoken response;    means    for processing a video signal for presentation  with said audio signal as a sound movie which includes an image of a speaking person;  means for analyzing said spoken response to determine which one word in said plurality of words most closely resembles a portion of said spoken response;  and  means for selecting from a plurality of recorded voice sounds a selected voice sound corresponding to said one word,  said generating means further generating an audio signal   which.    includes said selected voice sound for presentation with said sound movie.    14. an apparatus for simulating a voice conversation between a.human operator of the apparatus and an animated cartoon sound movie, the apparatus comprising:  means for generating an audio signal including voice sounds which communicate to the operator of'the apparatus a plurality of alternative words to speak in response;  means for generating a video signal including animated cartoon images of a talking face, wherein said voice sounds and said talking face comprise scenes in said cartoon movie;  means for controlling presentation of a first scene in said cartoon movie which is linked to a plurality of second scenes therein. each second scene corresponding to one word in a plurality of alternative words included in said first scene;  and  means for analyzing a spoken response from said operator and   dterminin3    therefrom which selected word in said first scene corresponds to said spoken response.    said controlling means further controlling presentation of the second scene in said cartoon movie which corresponds to said selected word and which includes voice sounds responsive to the selected word, thereby simulating a voice conversation between the cartoon movie and the operator.      15. a method of speech recognition, comprising the steps of:  presenting to a human speaker a plurality of alternative words, each word including a distinctive phonetic feature, to elicit from the human speaker a spoken response which includes one word in said plurality thereof; and  analyzing said spoken response to determine therefrom which word in said plurality of alternative words includes a distinctive phonetic feature also included in said spoken response.     16. a method   ot    speech recognition. comprising the steps   of:     presenting to a human speaker a plurality   of -    alternative words, each word including a combination of distinctive phonetic features, to elicit from the human speaker a spoken response which includes one word in said plurality thereof; and  analyzing said spoken response to determine therefrom which word in said plurality of alternative words, includes, a combination of   distinctiye    phonetic features also included in said spoken response.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
