<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0014477
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800820
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
A24D-3/00 A24D-3/02 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
method and apparatus for forming filter rod containing particulate material, especially charcoal impregnated filter rod.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
philip morris incus<sep>philip morris incorporated <sep>philip morris incorporated120 park avenuenew york, new york 10017 us  <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
brinker reiner gus<sep>brinker, reiner g.<sep>brinker, reiner g.5424 camille drivemechanicsville virginia 23111us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a laterally widened, flat travelling web (16) of filter  material is advanced beneath a rotary roller applicator (40)  which propels granular form charcoal (14) onto the web (16) to  impregnate and substantially uniformly distribute the  charcoal (14) throughout the web.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
background of the invention t it is known to employ various smoke treating materials in cigarettes, for example, granular charcoåal. purther, various methods and apparatus are known for making cigarette filter units which embody a mass of particulate charcoal therein. representative of known methods and apparatus are u.s. patents nows. 3,312,151; 3,357,320; 3,357,321; 3,366,125; 3,610,112; 3,772,967; 3,807,286; 3,844,200; and 4,086,84 . such methods and apparatus, however, involve manufacture of an ultimate composite, continuous filter rod in which the space between two longitudinally separated plugs of a smoke filter material such as cellulose acetate plugs is filled with granular charcoal, various modes of effecting charcoal filling being disclosed. such modes are not as a practical consideration fully effective for totally filling the space between the plugs. nor are the methods disclosed readily adapted to optimized filling operation without undue particulate material spillage unless resort is had to expensive and complicated filling techniques. u.s. patent 3,844,200 discloses method and apparatus in which a quantity of a granular form of smoke treating material, e.g., charcoal, clay, resins, etc. is deposited into a u-shaped filter material mass after which the legs of the u are closed to form a generally cylinarically shaped article containing spaced apart, centrally located pockets of the granular material. the article or continuous rod is then sectioned into appropriate lengths to provide individual cigarette filter components each containing a pocket of granular aterial. such component thus has the disadvantage that the granular material is centralized so that at marginal encircling portions of the component, the smoke passes directly through the component without contacting the granular treating material. summary of the present invention the present invention relates to a method and apparatus for forming a continuous filter rod of a fibrous material which is impregnated with or contains substantially uniformly distri tutted throughout the mass of the fibrous material, a particulate or granular material such as charcoal, a smoking treating resin material and the like. the continuous rod may be wrapped in.a wrapper material in conventional manner and thereafter be sectioned into lengths for delivery to the cigarette making operation and ultimate incorporation in cigarettes as smoke treating and filtering components. in accordance with the invention, a bloomed and later nlly widened, relatively thin, flat web of filter material such a a plasticized cellulose acetate tow is fed or advanced at a predetermined speed in a fixed line of travel which will take if past a deposit station at which the particulate material is to be deposited on and distributed substanially uniformly through ;out the tow. a source of particulate material, such as granular charcoal in a hopper is disposed at the deposit station and has an outflow, e.g., hopper bottom opening located adjacently above the web travel course. a rotary roller applicator is supported for 'rotation about a fixed. axis transverse to the direction of web travel and is so positioned that a peripheral length portion of the roller applicator passes through the particulate material at the hopper outflow and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
   tqhat    is claimed   is:         1.    a method for forming filter rod containing-particulate material substantially uniformly distributed therethrough, said method comprising  feeding a bloomed and laterally widened relatively thin web of fibrous filter material in a fixed travel course at a predetermined speed,  providing a source of the particulate material at a deposit station disposed at a location along said fixed travel course with an outflow from said source placed   adjacent    above said web,  and  transferring particulate material from said.source onto said web with a rotary roller applicator rotating about a fixed axis transverse to the   web travel    course with a peripheral length thereof passing through particulate material at said outflow and propelling said particulate material onto said web in a path generally codirectional to the web travel, the web travel for an appreciable distance both upstream and downstream of said deposit station being unconstrained, the speed of the periphery of the rotary roller applicator being substantially equal to the speed of the web, the closest point of approach of said rotary roller applicator periphery to said web being maintained such as to prevent deflection transmissive contact of said roller periphery with said web.    2. the method of claim 1 in which the web of filter material is cellulose acetate and the particulate material is granular charcoal.    3. the method of claim 2 in which the filter material is subjected to a plasticizing operation before it passes to the deposit station to effect joining together of the fibers thereof to form a cohesive mass therewith.      4. the method of claim 1 in which the peripheral length of the rotary roller applicator passing through the particulate material at said outflow is sufficiently less than the width of the web, whereby cascade of particulate material from the ends of said applicator and laterally of said web is not carried beyond the margins of said   web.       5. the method of claim 1 in which the particulate material containing web is formed into a generally 'cylindrical shape a distance downstream of said deposit station and is thereafter enclosed with a wrapper.    6. in apparatus for forming filter rod containing particulate material substantially uniformly distributed therethrough,  means for feeding a bloomed and laterally widened relatively thin web of fibrous filter material in a fixed travel course at a predetermined speed,  means for holding a source of particulate material at a deposit station disposed at a location along said fixed travel course,  said holding means having an outflow therefrom positioned adjacently above said web travel course,  a rotary roller applicator and means for rotating same,  means for supporting said rotary roller applicator for rotation about a fixed axis disposed transverse to the web travel course and in a   positionin    which a peripheral length of said roller applicator during rotation thereof passes through the particulate material at said outflow for propelling particulate material from said outflow in a path generally codirectional to the web travel and into said web to effect distribution of said particulate material throughout said web, and  web guidance means disposed an appreciable distance upstream of said deposit station for guiding the travel of said tweb toward said deposit station,  the web travel course from said guidance means and for an appreciable distance downstream of said  deposit station being unconstrained,  said applicator rotating means being effective to rotate said applicator such that the peripheral speed thereof is substantially equal to that of said web, said supporting means supporting said applicator in a disposition wherein the closest point of approach of said applicator periphery to said web is maintained such as to prevent deflection transmissive contact of said periphery with said web.    7. the apparatus of claim 6 in which said rotary roller applicator is an elongated cylindrical member having a plurality of spaced axially extending pockets at the periphery thereof.     8. the apparatus of claim 7 in which said cylindrical member is provided at the periphery thereof with a plurality of axially extending circularly spaced rods, adjacent ones of said rods defining each pocket.    9. the apparatus of claim 6 in which said holding means comprises a hopper, said hopper having a downwardly depending terminus chute section terminating adjacent the periphery of said rotary roller applicator in an outflow opening from said section.    10. the apparatus of claim 9 in which the width of the outflow opening is a predetermined dimension of lesser width than the width of said web at the deposit station.    11. the apparatus of claim 6 further comprising means disposed downstream of said deposit station for forming the particulate material impregnated web into a generally cylindrical shape.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
