<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0009520
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800416
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<main>B01F-3/08</main> B01F-3/08 F23K-5/00 F23K-5/02 G05D-11/02 B01F-5/04 G05D-11/00 F23K-5/12 B01F-15/04 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
emulsifying system and method for mixing accurate quantities of two or more liquids.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
r e folland consultants incca<sep>r.e. folland consultants inc.<sep>r.e. folland consultants inc.179 winderesthudson, quebec, canada jop 1hoca<sep>r.e. folland consultants inc.  <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
folland roy e<sep>millar richard c<sep>folland, roy e.<sep>millar, richard c.<sep>folland, roy e.r.r. no. 1 south beech ridge roadclarenceville quebecca<sep>millar, richard c.137 hillside streetotterburn park quebecca<sep>folland, roy e.<sep>millar, richard c.<sep>folland, roy e.r.r. no. 1 south beech ridge roadclarenceville quebecca<sep>millar, richard c.137 hillside streetotterburn park quebecca<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
an emulsifying system for mixing accurate ratios of two  or more liquids to form an emulsion.  the liquids are prefer­ ably, but not exclusively, water and oil.  a supply circuit (11,  12) delivers accurate proportions of the two or more liquids to  an injector (15) which mixes them to form a water/oil mixture.   an emulsifier (46,48) emulsifies the mixture to form an emul­ sion.  a container (40) stores a quantity of the emulsion that  may vary between predetermined limits, and an output circuit  is provided to draw the emulsion from the storage container  (40).  a recirculating circuit is connected at the output of the  container to return emulsion from the container to the emul­ sifier continuously to regenerate the emulsion.  the emulsion  storage container permits the supply of the mixture and the  emulsion to the storage container (40) at a rate independent of  the rate at which the emulsion is drawn from the output  circuit.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
the present invention relates to an improved emulsifying system and method for mixing accurate ratios of two or more liquids to form an emulsion. preferabla, but not exclusively, the liquids are water and oil which are pressure regulated and the supply is isolated from a vented storage container which stores the emulsion to feed burning apparatus whereby to reduce pollutants which are released in the ztmosphre and which also reduce the efficiency of burning a water/oil emulsion, less oil is consumed by the burning system. various chemicals and apparatus have heretofore been provided in an attempt to achieve such objectives. however, such known methods and apparatus have not proved to be entirely efficient and economical. surfactants are sometimes used to break down the surface tension of one of the fluids to be mixed together, whereby to enable the mixing to take place. surfactants are usually expensive and require additional savings in the system construction whereby to justify the cost thereof. also, it has been found that surfactants promote boiler and flue corrosion. the very fact that the surface tension is reduced, eliminates or diminishes the microexplosions which take place with an emulsion produced without surfactants. these microexplosions are important to the improved performance of burning emulsion. it is also known to. use sonic whistles or similar type devices together with bigh pressure pumps to produce a desired emulsion. however, known systems which use such devices do not provide means to reduce capacity in order to-correspond to varying firing rates of burners, without reducing feed pressures. the reduction of feed pressures seriously reduces the effectiveness of this type of equipment thereby providing a drawback. another type of apparatus known is the piston type homogenizer which is used to produce emulsions from water and oil. these homogenizers, however, require very large amounts of horsepower, require frequent maintenance, and are expensive. another type of prior art device known is the ultrasonic reactor which is used to produce a water/oil emulsion. this equipment is, however, very expensive, and uneconomical. also, such reactors are known to fail due to overpressure, startup with cold oil, etc. this type of system is susceptible to damage from external pressure sources. controlling water to oil ratio is very difficult because there is a reliance on standard control items which in themselves are not accurate while trying to proportion through the range of firing rates of a burner system. known methods and devices, such as those described above, are also very costly. recirculating or circulating emulsion through a burner system has been very difficult, if not impossible to achieve, because of the problem of contaminating the straight oil with emulsion. it is, therefore, a feature of this invention to substantially overcome all of the abovementioned disadvantages of the prior art and to provide an emulsifying system for mixing two or more liquids to form a stable emulsion. a further feature of the present invention is to substantially eliminate the use of surfactants or any other chemical which is only used
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims   i. an emulsifying system for mixing accurate ratios of two or more liquids to form an emulsion suitable to permit continuous supply of said emulsion to emulsion consuming means, characterized in that said system comprises means for supplying an accurate mixture of said two or more liquids, an emulsifying device to emulsify said mixture into an emulsion, emulsion storage means for storing a   quantity of    said emulsion that may vary between predetermined limits, an output circuit to draw said emulsion from said emulsion storage means, a recirculating circuit connected at said output circuit and having a recirculating pump to recirculate said emu-lsion to said emulsifying device where said emulsion is regenerated and returned to said storage means whereby said emulsion in said storage means is maintained in a usable state,  said emulsion storage means having a volume control means to control the flow of said two or more liquids to said emulsifying device to permit the supply of said emulsified mixture to the storage means at a rate  independent of the rate at which said emulsion is drawn from said output to maintain a stored volume of emulsion for supply.   2. a system as claimed in claim   i,    characterized in that said emulsion is a water/oil emulsion for use as a combustible fuel.   3. a system as claimed in claim 2, characterized in that said means for supplying an   accurate    mixture comprises injection means fed by a regulated water and oil supply to provide said accurate mixture of said water and oil, said injection means is an injector device having a water flow inlet and an oil flow inlet connected respectively to said water and oil regulated supplies, conduit means to release water and oil flows from said inlets to mix in said injector device, said regulated supplies being pressure regulated supplies, said pressure regulated supplies each have a pressure regulating device and a flow restriction means located downstream of said pressure regulating  device, said flow restriction means controlling the flow rate of said water and oil supplies for delivery to said water flow inlet and oil flow inlet, respectively,  of said injection device.   4. a system as claimed in claim 2, charactized in that said water/oil emulsion is drawn into said recirculating circuit by said recirculating pump, said emulsifying device being connected between said recirculating pump and said storage means, said storage means further   zoprisin    temperature control means to maintain said water/ oil emulsion at a desired temperature, input means connected to said storage means to feed back water/oil emulsion from a burner, and wherein said output circuit is connected to said burner, whereby said burner draws said water/oil emulsion from said storage means when in operation.   5. a system as claimed in claim 1, characterized in   tnat    valve means is provided downstream of said means for supplying an accurate mixture to isolate said storage means from pressure  from said means for supplying said accurate mixture.   6. a system as claimed in claim 2 characterized in that a further mixer device is connected to said output circuit to obtain a finer mix of said oil and water in said emulsion prior to delivery to a burner device.   7. a system as claimed in claim 6 characterized in that said further mixer is a high frequency mixer device capable   of    shattering water particles to obtain a finer emulsion.   8. a system as claimed in claim 1 characterized in that said storage means is vented to atmosphere.   9. a method of mixing accurate ratios of two or more liquids and forming a stable emulsion therefrom suitable to permit continuous supply of said emulsion to emulsion consuming means, characterized in that said method comprises the  steps of:  i) mixing said two or more liquids in an accurate proportion to form a mixture.    ii) feeding said mixture to an emulsifying device to produce an emulsion from said mixture,  iii) storing said emulsion in a storage means.    iv) controlling the volume of emulsion in said storage means to permit the supply of said mixture and the supply of sad   emulsion    to said storage means at a rate independent of the rate at which said emulsion is drawn from said storage means, and  v) feeding said emulsion from said storage means back to said emulsifying device where said emulsion is regenerated and fed back to said storage means.   10. a method as claimed in claim 9, characterized in that said step (i) comprising controlling the flow rate of a pressure regulated supply of  said two or more liquids, and feeding said pressure regulated supply to an injector means for mixing.   11. a method as claimed in claim 10, characterized in that there is further provided the step of isolating said container from said pressure regulated water and oil supply.    12. a method as claimed in claim 11, characterized in that there is further provided the step of feeding said emulsion from said storage means to a further emulsifying means to obtain a finer emulsion, and feeding said finer emulsion to an emulsion burning apparatus.   13. a method as claimed in claim 10, characterized in that there is further provided the step of isolating said storage means from said pressure regulated supplies and controlling the feed of said emulsion to said storage means.     14. a method as claimed in claim 13, characterized in that said step of controlling the supply of said mixture includes controlling a shutoff valve downstream of a mixing means.   15. a method as claimed in claim 9, characterized in that there is further provided the step   oi    controlling the pressure in said storage means.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
