<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0006756
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800109
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
E04B-2/62 E04B-1/24 <main>E04B-2/62</main> E04B-1/76 E04B-2/58 E04B-2/74 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
load bearing composite panel.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
slater jack<sep>slater, jack<sep>slater, jack102 west dean park driveislington, ontarioca<sep>slater, jack <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
slater jack<sep>slater, jack<sep>slater, jack102 west dean park driveislington, ontarioca<sep>slater, jack<sep>slater, jack102 west dean park driveislington, ontarioca<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a building panel structure and a system for erecting  buildings are described which utilize structural foam com­ bined in a unique fashion with rigid framing members to  provide low-cost, energy efficient building structures which  can be quickly and easily erected.  the panel structure com­ prises rectangular elongated slabs (12) of rigid polystyrene  foam material formed at two parallel edges with protruding  tongues (18).  in use, the slabs are placed edge to edge with  fingers of adjacent slabs in abutment and hollow, tubular,  rigid frame members (20), disposed in the grooves formed  by the adjacent tongues (18), serve to sandwich the abut­ ting tongues of adjacent slabs and secure them together.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
panel structure and building structures made therefrom this invention relates to improvements in panel structures and to improved building structures made therefrom. it is a principal object of the present invention to provide a building system which combines low cost on-site construction with high performance materials to create an energy-efficient building system usable under a wide variety of climatic conditions. it is a further object of the invention to provide a building system which permits either on-site or prefabricated construction of buildings, usable as residential houses, recreational units, mobile units, construction camp units, hospitals, schools, warehouses and the like. it is a further object of the invention to provide a building system which makes possible the use of semi-skilled labour and requires no special lifting or construction equipment. the present invention, among other things, provides a unique form of building panel structure, which panel structure is usable to form the side walls, roof, interior partitions and, optionally, the floor of a building structure. a building panel structure in accordance with one aspect of the invention includes a plurality of elongated slabs of rigid structural foam insulating material. each slab includes a pair of major surfaces with a pair of recesses being disposed along each of the longitudinal side edges of the slab to define a tongue extending therealong, each such tongue projecting outwardly from a mid-thickness region of the slab. the slabs are disposed in side-by side relation with the tongues of the respective slabs being in opposed abutting relationship and the adjacent recesses together defining opposed grooves located at the junctions between the slabs. a rigid framing member is disposed in each of these grooves with the opposing pairs of framing members serving to "sandwich" the abutting tongues of the adjacent slabs therebetween. suitable means are provided for securing each member of the opposed pairs of framing members relative to the tongues of insulating material which are sandwiched therebetween. the tongues of foam material serve to provide a thermal barrier between the framing members. preferably, each framing member comprises a tubular metal member although in some embodiments alternative structural materials such as wood or reinforced plastics could be used. furthermore, in the preferred form of the invention, a suitable adhesive material serves to bond each framing member to the foam material next adjacent thereto. in a typical embodiment of the invention, the slabs of foam material-comprise precut rigid polystyrene sheets. the framing members typically comprise galvanized tubular steel members. these tubes are interconnected by chemical welding to the polystyrene material. pairs of perimeter framing members which typically comprise galvanized steel angles are fastened to the ends of the respective tubes and are chemically bonded to the foam along the perimeters of the panel structure. the system enables thermal bridging to be kept to an absolute minimum. the above-noted tongues of foam material serve to separate the pairs of framing members from one another and the steel angle members located at the perimeters of the panel are likewise spaced apart
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:     1. a building panel structure including:  a plurality of elongated planar slabs of rigid  structural foam   insulating    material, each slab having a pair of  major surfaces, each said slab having a pair of recesses disposed  along each of its longitudinal side edges to define a tongue  extending along said longitudinal side edge, each such tongue  projecting outwardly from a   mid--thickness    region of the slab,  the slabs being in side-by-side relation with said tongues of  the respective slabs being in opposed abutting relationship  and the adjacent recesses together defining opposed grooves  located at the junctions between the slabs, and a rigid framing  member in each of said grooves, opposed pairs of the framing  members serving to sandwich said abutting tongues of the adjacent  slabs therebetween,  and means for securing each member of the  opposed pairs of framing members relative to the tongues which  are sandwiched therebetween, the tongues of foam material  serving to provide a thermal barrier between the framing members.    2. the structure according to claim 1 wherein  each said framing member comprises a tubular metal member.    3. the structure according to claim 2 wherein  adhesive means serves to bond each said framing member to the  foam material next adjacent thereto.    4. the structure according to claim 1 wherein  first and second sets of the framing members are associated with  first and second ones respectively of the major surfaces of the  panel structure, the opposing ends of the first and second sets  of framing members being   attached    to respective ones of first  and second pairs of perimeter framing strips which extend  along opposing ends of the panel structure, the' first and  second pairs of perimeter framing strips being spaced apart  to provide a thermal barrier therebetween.      5.    the structure according to claim 3 wherein  each tubular metal member is of rectangular section with that surface thereof which is directed outwardly of the panel being generally flush with the major surfaces of the slabs associated therewith.    6. - the structure according to claim 5 including a protective skin of material bonded to at least one of   than major    surfaces of the panel.    7. the structure according to claim 5 wherein each of the opposing ends of the panel structure has a pair of perimeter framing strips extending there along and spaced apart in the direction of the thickness dimension of the panel to provide a thermal break therebetween, the opposing ends of the framing members being connected to associated ones of said pairs of perimeter framing strips so as to maintain the thermal break.    8. a building structure including load bearing wall panels and roof panels, said wall panels and roof panels each comprising panel   structures    as defined   in,    any one of claims 1, 3 and 4, the rigid framing members of the wall panels being disposed vertically, and the rigid housing members of the roof panels spanning certain of said wall panels and being supported thereby.    9. a building structure including load bearing wall panels and roof panels, said wall panels and roof panels each comprising panel structures as defined in claim 7, the rigid framing members of the wall panels being disposed vertically, and the rigid housing members of the roof panels spanning certain of said wall panels and being supported thereby.    10. a building structure according to   claim    9 wherein the perimeter framing strips of said load bearing  wall panels are disposed along the top and bottom edges of such panels to form the caps and sills thereof respectively, lowermost ones of the framing strips being secured to a floor slab, the wall panels being secured to one another at the corners of the building structure, and said roof panels resting on the top edges of adjacent pairs of the load bearing wall panels and being secured thereto.    11. a method of constructing a building panel  structure including:  providing a plurality of elongated   plantar    slabs of rigid structural foam insulating material, each slab having a pair of major surfaces, each said slab having a pair of recesses disposed along each of its longitudinal side edges to define a tongue extending along each said longitudinal side edge, each such tongue projecting outwardly from a mid-thickness region of the slab, locating a first set of elongated rigid framing members in spaced parallel relation, the spacing therebetween corresponding to the lateral dimension of each said slab,  positioning a plurality of the slabs in side-by-side generally co-planar relation with said tongues of the respective   slabs    opposed abutting relationship such that the adjacent recesses together define first and second opposed sets of grooves located at the junctions between the slabs, the slabs being further positioned such that each of the framing members of said first set is disposed in a respective one of said first set of grooves, and positioning individual framing members of a second set in each one of the second set of grooves,  opposed pairs of the framing members serving to sandwich said abutting tongues of the adjacent slabs   therebetween    and securing each member of the opposed pairs of framing members relative to the tongues which are sandwiched therebetween so that the tongues of foam material serve to provide a thermal barrier between the framing members.       12. the method according to claim 11 including applying adhesive material in such a way that a layer of same becomes interposed between each said framing member and the tongue of foam material next adjacent thereto and allowing the adhesive to set or cure to effect bonding therebetween.      13*    the method   according to    claim 12 including positioning perimeter framing strips along each of the opposing ends of the structure and adhesively securing same to said foam material and also fastening same to the ends of the rigid framing ,members.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
