<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0017453
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19801015
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
H01H-35/34 H01H-35/26 G01F-23/18 D06F-33/02 G01F-23/14 G01L-9/00 H01H-35/24 D06F-39/08 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
washing appliance and liquid level sensing means therefor.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
eaton corpus<sep>eaton corporation<sep>eaton corporation100 erieview plazacleveland ohio 44114us<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
jones william hasletus<sep>jones, william haslet<sep>jones, william haslet258 south oaklandvilla park illinois 60181us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
this invention relates to washing appliances for domes­ tic use of the type having a tub for holding liquid into which  the articles to be washed are immersed and means for filling  and draining liquid to and from the tub.  a novel sensor (50) is  responsive to the hydrostatic head in the tub and provides a  continuously varying signal indicating the liquid level in the  tub as it varies during filling and draining.  the sensor  employs a housing (52) having an inlet (54) receiving fluid  pressurized from the bottom of the tub and a pressure  responsive member (68) coacting with a plunger (92) having  attached thereto movable electrical contacts slidably engag­ ing stationary contacts on the housing.  the sensor includes  circuit means responsive to contact movement providing  discrete characteristics of the varying signal for predeter­ mined increments of liquid level.  in one embodiment the  circuit means includes the movable contacts comprising  wiper surfaces on a movable printed circuit board and in  another embodiment the circuit means includes stationary  contacts comprising strips on a stationary printed circuit  board.  logic means are provided to render the liquid level  signal in a digital form and actuate remote indicator means  to display an optical readout of the liquid level on a console  for the information of the machine user.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
washing appliance and liquid level sensing means therefor background of the invention: the present invention relates to appliances having a receptacle or tub containing liquid into which articles to be laundered are immersed and agitated and particularly to appliances of this type intended for domestic or household use. laundry appliances of this type, or washing machines as they are commonly called, usually have power actuated valves adapted for connection to a source of washing liquid for contolling the filling and draining of the washing liquid from the receptacle. power actuated agitator means are usually provided within the receptacle for effecting a washing action between the immersed articles and the washing liquid. where desired, a power meats is provided to spin the tub. a timer is usually employed to provide a programmed sequence of washing operations by alternately actuating the drain means and fill valves and the agitator. the most widely used types of domestic washing machines also employ pressure switches for sensing the hydrostatic head in the receptacle for actuating the fill and drain valve when the liquid in the receptacle attains a predetermined level. the pressure switch functions provided in some types of washing machines presently known are performed by an individual pressure switch for each level of liquid at which it is desired to actuate or deactuate the fill and drain valves. this requires a plurality of pressure switches for high and low level control of the liquid in the receptacle during the programmed cycle of washing functions. in such type washers it has therefore, long been desired to find a way in which the pressure switch functions could be combined in a single sensor capable of activating the fill and drain valves at various predetermined levels of the liquid in the receptacle for controlling liquid level in the tub. furthermore, it has long been desired to find an economical means of providing a continuous indication of the liquid level in the receptacle such that the sensor provided a control signal responsive to the varying liquid level and capable of command functions for associated control mechanisms. washing machine pressure switches have heretofore employed snap acting electrical contacts calibrated to actuate and deactuate upon movement of a pressure responsive member arranged to sense the pressure head of the liquid in the receptacle. such pressure switch mechanisms have required a separate set of snap acting electrical contacts to be calibrated for actuation at each level of liquid for which a control function is-to be commanded. it has been thus heretofore prohibitively costly and difficult to arrange a plurality of electrical contacts for actuation in response to a single pressure responsive member, in order to provide control command signals at various receptacle liquid levels. in order to provide such a function, it has previously been necessary to provide a plurality of pressure switches each having a pressure responsive member and an accompanying set of snap-acting electrical contacts. alternatively, in another widely used type of machine, a single pressure switch has been
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims:    1. an appliance for washing articlec of the type having a tub for receiving liquid therein for immersion of articles to be washed   önd    means operable upon connection to a source of power for selectively agitating said articles with respect to said liquid and means selectively operable to introduce and drain liquid in the tub, said appliance being characterised by sensor means (50) operable upon connection to a source of power to sense the hydrostatic pressure head of said liquid and emit a varying signal having certain characteristics thereof indicative of the varying level of liquid in said tub, and logic means (116, 122, 120, 125) responsive to said certain sensor signa#l characteristics and operative to activate said agitation means and said liquid introducing and said draining means in a preselected program.    2. an appliance for washing articles of thr type having a receptacle for holding liquid into which the articles to be washed are immersed and   performing    a preselected program of washing operations on said   artic#1###,    said appliance comprising inlet means adapted for connection to a source of washing liquid and fluidly communicating with said receptacle, outlet means fluidly communicating with said receptacle for effecting discharge flow of said washing liquid from said receptacle, means selectively actuable and operable upon connection to a source of power to effect a scrubbing action between said articles and said washing liquid, fill valve means selectively actuable and operable to block and unblock flow in said inlet means, and drain means selectively actuable and operable to block and unblock flow in said outlet means,  and characterised by sensor means (50) operable to sense the hydrostatic pressure head of said liquid in said receptacle and to emit a varying signal having certain  characteristics thereof indicative of the varying level of liquid in said receptacle, and logic means (116, 122, 120, 125) operable in response to predetermined   value    of said certain characteristics of said sensor signal for effecting a preselected program of actuation of said fill valve means, and said drain means for controlling the liquid level in said receptacle.    3. an appliance as claimed in claim 2, further comprising means selectively operable to dispense an additive to said washing liquid in said receptacle, and characterised in that said dispensing means (227) is activated by said logic means in response to a   predetermined    value of said certain characteristics of said sensor signal.    4. an appliance as claimed in claim 2 or claim 3, characterised in that said sensor means (50) comprises housing means (52) having a liquid inlet (54) fluidly communicating with the liquid in said receptacle, pressure responsive means (68, 70) movable with respect to said housing means in response to the liquid pressure in said housing inlet, circuit means (108, 166, 168) defining a plurality of electrical contact surfaces, and wiper means (102) operable to make sliding electrical contact with said contact surfaces and slidably movable with respect thereto in response to movement of said pressure responsive means.    5. an appliance as claimed in claim 4, characterised in that said housing means (52, 58) defines guide means (88), and the plunger means (92) contacts said guide means and is directed thereby, said circuit means defining a plurality of electrical contact surfaces (108, 168, 166) aligned in the direction of motion of said plunger means.    6. an appliance as claimed in claim 5, characterised in that the wiper means (102) is operatively  connected to said pressure responsive means for movement therewith.    7. an appliance as claimed in claim 2, characterised in that the sensor means   (5o)    includes housing means (58, 52) defining a fluid inlet (300) communicating with said liquid in said receptacle,   sai    housing means further defining guide means. pressure responsive means (294, 292) movable with respect   so    sa## housing means in response to the fluid pressure in said fluid inlet, wiper means (282) including electrical   contact    means stationary with respect to said housing   means      en-t    circuit   i; ;   board means (288) including at least one   #lect±'-#c--ai    contact member on the surface thereof, said circuit board means being operatively connected to said pressure responsive means for movement therewith and   having    said surface contact member slidably contacting member   slidably    contacting said stationary electrical contact   m2ans,    wherein said movement of said circuit board means is directed   b7    said guide means.    8. an appliance as claimed in claim   2    characterised in that the logic means is operative in response to predetermined values of said certain characteristics of said sensor signal to actuate end deactuate said scrubbing means.    9. an appliance as claimed in claim 2, characterised by circuit means operative to provide a reference signal (12, 116, 122, 125), said logic means   (120)    being operative to compare said characteristic of said varying signal with said reference signal and activate said fill valve at predetermined values of said comparison.    10. an appliance as claimed in claim 9,   further    characterised by means (227) operative upon   actuafion    dispense an additive to said liquid in said receptacle, said logic means including means (223) operative in response to predetermined values of said comparison to actuate said  dispensing means.    11. an appliance for washing articles in a receptacle holding liquid into which the articles to be washed are immersed and performing a preselected program of washing operations on said articles, said appliance comprising filling means operable upon connection to a source of washing liquid and upon selective actuation to introduce liquid into said receptacle, drain means operable upon selective actuation to effect discharge of said liquid from said receptacle, sensor means operable to sense the hydrostatic pressure head of said liquid in said receptacle, and agitation means operable upon selective actuation to effect a scrubbing action of said articles with respect to the washing liquid in said receptacle, and characterised in that the sensor means comprises housing means (52, 58) having an inlet (54) fluidly communicating with the liquid in said receptacle,  pressure responsive means (68, 70) movable with respect to said housing means in response to changes in the liquid pressure in said housing inlet, circuit means (102, 108) operative upon connection to a source of electrical power to provide said sensor signal in response to movement of said pressure responsive means, said circuit means including a plurality of electrical contact members with one of said members stationary with respect to said housing means and another of said members in sliding contact therewith and slidably movable with respect to said stationary contact in response to movement of said pressure responsive means, and further characterised by logic means (116, 122, 120,   125) operative in response to said certain characteristics of said sensor signal to actuate said filling means and said drain means to effect a preselected program of washing operations in a preselected amount of liquid.    12. an appliance as claimed in claim 11, characterised in that the circuit means includes a printed   circuit board (108) stationary with respect to   said    housing means with one of said electrical contacts thereon.    13. an appliance as claimed in claim 11, characterised in that the circuit means includes a printed circuit board (288) having one of said electrical contacts provided thereon, said printed circuit board being movable with respect to said housing means in response to   movement    of said pressure responsive means.    14. an appliance as claimed in any of claims 11 to 13, characterised in that the sensor means   (50)    includes anti-flood circuit means (217) operable to deactuate said filling means upon said pressure head in said   receptacle    reaching a predetermined value, said anti-flood circuit means by-passing said logic means to provide overfill protection in the event of failure of said logic means.    15. an appliance as claimed in any of claims 11 to 14, further characterised by display means (112) operative to display a readout for the appliance operator and wherein said logic means includes means (122) operable to digitally encode the value of said certain signal characteristics   bnd    to supply said code to said display means readout of sad liquid level in said receptacle.    16. an appliance as claimed in any of claims 11 to 15, characterised in that the housing inlet includes a restrictor (56) to dampen inlet pressure pulses.    17. an appliance as claimed in any of claims 11 to 16, characterised in that said certain characteristics of said varying signal comprise a plurality of logic 0 to 1 and logic   1 to    0 changes at preselected increments of liquid level in said receptacle, and, said appliance further comprising means (116,118) responsive to said logic   chan s    and operative to give a digital number for each   incremer##t    of liquid level, and, means (157, 161) receiving each digital number and operative to produce a different and distinct transfer signal for each number, and, means   (139,    146, 145,  141) operative to provide an indication of the presence of each transfer signal.     18. an appliance as claimed in claim 17, characterised in that said presence indicating means comprises light emitting diodes.    19. an appliance as claimed in any of claims 11 to 18, characterised in that the logic means is operative in response to predetermined values of said sensor signal to actuate said agitation means.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
