<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0009684
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800416
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
H04M-1/66 G07F-7/00 H04M-15/06 <main>H04M-3/42</main> H04M-17/02 H04M-15/04 H04M-1/02 H04M-17/00 H04Q-3/00 G07C-9/00 H04M-1/675 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
a telephone-switching system.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
szwarcbier gabriela<sep>szwarcbier, gabriela<sep>szwarcbier, gabrielavia belvedere 12i-21016 luinoit<sep>szwarcbier, gabriela<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
szwarcbier gabriela<sep>szwarcbier, gabriela<sep>szwarcbier, gabriela<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
the invention relates to a novel telephone-switching sys­ tem and a novel public-telephone instrument.  the telephone  exchange is provided with a switching means so that the  access to one or more line connections to the exchange is  barred, according to a certain code with switching means, and  one or more register devices are connected to the line con­ nects.  the novel public-telephone instruments are equipped  with pulse-generators, such that a subscriber may be called,  without the use of coins and without the aid of an operator in  the following manner: first by setting in motion the impulse-generator of the  telephone instrument, a code known only to the caller gives  access within the exchange to a certain line connection, after  which the connection to the subscriber is made, as heretofore,  by means of a pulse-generator, and the register device which  is connected to the line connection registers the caller's code  and the time or time unit of the call.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
the invention relates to a novel telephone-switching system and to a novel public-telephone instrument by means of which it is possible to make lc#g--distance calls without cash and the charges for such calls can be determined at the exchange office. these telephone instruments are intended to be able to replace existing coin telephones. the proposed telephone-switching system is intended to make iit possible to provide portable telephone instruments which can be plugged into telephone junction boxes, and with which local or longdistance calls can be made under the control of the telephone company or post office. the proposed telephone-switching system and telephone instruments are intended to expand the telephone network and make it less expensive, and to reduce personnel and maintenance. they are also intended to reduce, -or even eliminate, unauthorized use of, abus of, and damage to, public telephone instruments, and to substantially increase the revenues from the telephone system. the proposed novel telephone-switching system, and novel telephone instruments, are characterized in that the telephone exchange is provided with switching means, so that the access to one or more line connections to the exchange is barred, according to a certain code, with switching means, and one or more register devices are connected to the line connections, and the novel public-telephone instruments are equipped with pulse-generators, such that a subscriber may be called, without the use of coins and with out the aid of an operator in the following manner, that, firstly, by setting in motion the pulse-generator of the telephone instrument, a code known only to the caller gives access within the exchange to a certain line connection, after which the connection to the subscriber is made, as heretofore, by means of a pulse-generator, and that the register device which is connected to the line connection registers the callers s code and the time or time unit of the call. it has hitherto been customary for a person wising to call someone from a public coin telephone to pay for the call immediately by inserting coins there are at present coin telephones which can be used only by inserting coins and coin telephones which can be used by inserting coins and with operator assistance. in the case of coin telephones which can be operated only by inserting coins, the disadvantage is that the caller must have a large supply of coins, and this is not usually the case. it is often impossible for the caller to complete his call because he has no more loose change. in the case of coin telephones which can be operated by inserting coins and with operator assistance, there are other disadvantages, since call are made as follows: at the operator's request, the caller inserts enough money for the first three minutes insertion of the coins producing audio signals which enable the operator to check the amount paid. a line to the exchange is then made available by the operator, and the caller obtains the desired connection by dialling. the duration of the call
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 the embodiments of the invention in which an exclu   sive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. a telephone switching system for connecting one of a plurality of telephone instruments to a telephone exchange;  each of said telephone instruments comprising means for generating pulses to thereby generate a code  said switching system being connected in electrical series with said one telephone instrument and said telephone exchange and being adapted to prevent access of said one telephone instrument to said telephone exchange;  said switching system comprising;  means for storing a plurality of predetermined codes  means for accepting a code - generated by said one telephone instrument;  and  means for comparing said generated code   -    with said predetermined code# one at a time;  whereby, when said generated code   ------    is recognized by said means for comparing, access of said one telephone instrument to said telephone exchange is provided.   2. a system as defined in claim 1 and further comprising a register device;  wherein code generated by said plurality of telephone instruments and details of telephone calls are stored in said register device.   3. a system as defined in claim 1 wherein each of said telephone instruments is associated with a respective line in said telephone exchange;  and wherein access of any of said telephone instruments to said telephone exchange connects said telephone instrument to its respective line;  whereby the telephone instruments becomes extensions of the respective lines.     4. a system as defined in claim 1 wherein said means for storing, said means' for accepting and seid means for comparing comprise a computer system; said means for storing comprising the memory of said computer system.   5. a system as defined in claim 1 wherein said means for generating pulses includes a member selectee from the group of dials, keyboards, magnetic tapes or phonograph records.   6. a system as defined in claim 1 wherein said weans for generating pulses is contained in a housing separate from said telephone instrument, said means for generating pulses including a jack means which is received in a socket in said telephone instrument and which is also receivable in a like socket in pay telephones.   7. a system as defined in claim   1    and further comprising means for reading a fingerprint;  means for generating a code representative of a respective fingerprint connected to said means for reading a fingerprint;  said means for generating a code being connected to said means for generating pulses;  whereby said code generated by said telephone instrument comprises a pulsed signal representative of respective fingerprints.   8. a system as defined in claim 7 wherein said means for reading a fingerprint comprises:  a housing having a window communicating with a fingerguide in the housing for receiving the fingertip of a user;  said fingerguide being so arranged that a fingertip received in the guide is disposed in the housing in relation to two co-ordinates, one running approximately along the horizontal axis of the guide and the other running through the finger at right angles to the longitudinal axis of the finger;    a projector;  a screen;  said projector being adapted to protect an image of the fingertip on the screen;  electronic scanning means for scanning the screen and generating a code representative of a respective finger   print.      9. a system as defined in claim 8 and further including as switch means in said finger guide;  whereby, when a fingertip is inserted in said finger guide, the switch is tripped to thereby turn on said means for reading a fingerprint.   10. a system as defined in claim 1 wherein said telephone instrument includes means for receiving coins;  whereby said telephone instrument can be either coin operated or code operated.   11. a system as defined in claim 1 and further comprising a plurality of connecting points;  each connecting pant comprising a post cemented into the ground, a receiving socket, and cables connecting said socket to said switching system;  each of said telephone instruments comprising a jack receivable in said socket;  whereby to connect the telephone instruments to said switching system.    12. a system as defined in claim 1 wherein at least some of said telephone instruments are arranged in the instrument panel of a respective car with a   correcting    cable wound on a drum;  whereby said telephone instrument can be plugged into connecting points.     13. a system as defined in claim 1 and further comprising means for reading an information on identity card;  means for generating a   codn    representative of respective information on a respective identity card connected to said means for reading an identity card;  said means for generating. a code being connected to said means for generating   pulses;     whereby said code generated by said telephone instrument comprises a pulsed signal representative of the   respectivd    information of respective identity cards.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
