<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0007203
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800123
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
A62C-3/16 H02G-3/04 A62C-3/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
an improved cable support system.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
british insulated callendersgb<sep>bicc limited<sep>bicc limited21, bloomsbury streetlondon, wc1b 3qngb<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
crew eric williamgb<sep>crew, eric william<sep>crew, eric william26 st. david's drivebroxbourne, hertfordshire en10 7lsgb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
an electric cable and/or service pipe support comprises  an elongate metal duct (1) divided transversely of its length  into at least two separately formed parts that are detachably  secured together and, housed in the duct, metal means (2) for  supporting at least one electric cable and/or service pipe.  at  least one part of the duct has at spaced positions along its  length, for cooling purposes, ventilation holes (11) for pas­ sage of air into and out of the duct.  a plurality of separately operable ventilation hole-closure  devices (4) are mounted in and arranged at spaced positions  along the length of the duct, each adapted to close automati­ cally a group of ventilation holes when the temperature out­ side the duct reaches or exceeds a predetermined value.  pref­ erably, each ventilation hole-closure device (4) is a flat plate  normally supported in such a position with respect to the  ventilation holes that air can flow into and out of the duct but  which, when automatically operated, moves in such a direc­ tion and to such an extent as to close the ventilation holes.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
an improved cable support system this invention relates to electric cable and/or service pipe supports in which protection is provided against the effects of external fires. according to the invention an improved electric cable and/or seryice pipe support comprises metal means for supporting at least one electric cable and/or at least one service pipe; an elongate metal duct housing said support means and divided transversely of its length into at least two separately formed parts that are detachably secured together, at least one of said separately formed parts having at spaced positions along its length, for cooling purposes, a ventilation hole or ventilation holes for passage of air into or out of the duct; and, mounted in the duct, means for closing said ventilation holes automatically when the temperature outside the duct reaches or exceeds a predetermined value. the predetermined temperature near the outer surface of the duct at which the ventilation hole-closure means will automatically operate can be arranged to ensure transversely of the duct and towards said wall to close the ventilation holes, in the latter arrangement, air entering the duct through ventilation holes will flow between adjacent closure plates and around the electric cables and/or service pipes but, for improved air circulation in the duct, preferably each closure plate itself has a plurality of apertures which are not in direct alignment with the associated ventilation holes and which, when the closure plate is automatically operated to close the ventilation holes, will themselves be closed by the wall of the duct. any convenient form of mechanism may be used to hold the closure plate in the "open" position and, when automatically operated, to move it into the " closed" position but, preferably, when the closure plate has been moved into the "closed" position, e.g. by a spring or springs, the arrangement is such that the closure plate is locked in this position, e.g. by a toggle mechanism, by a cam or by a lever following a specially shaped slot. one simple form of toggle mechanism that may be employed to lock the closure plate in the "closed" position is at least one lever which b at one of its ends is pivoted above the closure plate and which, at the other of its ends, bears against the closure plate, the lever being so spring loaded that it is urged towards a position in which it will lie with its axis substantially normal to the that in the event of an external fire the maximum safe temperature that the sheath of an electric cable and/or a service pipe can withstand will not be exceeded, closing of the ventilation holes preventing the ingress into the duct of flames or hot gas. preferably, the electric cable and/or service pipe support has a plurality of separately operable ventilation hole-closure devices arranged at spaced positions along the length of the duct, each adapted to close a group of ventilation holes. each ventilation hole-closure device preferably comprises a substantially flat plate or sheet, preferably
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
what we claim is:   1.   an    electric cable and/or service pipe support comprising metal means for supporting at least one electric cable and/or at least one service pipe, and an elongate metal duct housing said support means and divided transversely of its length into at least two separately formed parts that are detachably secured together, wherein at least one of said separately formed parts has at spaced positions along its length, for cooling purposes, a ventilation hole or ventilation holes for passage of air into and out. of the duct and wherein, there is mounted in the duct means for closing said ventilation holes automatically   when the    temperature outside the duct reaches or exceeds a predetermined value.   2. an electric cable and/or service pipe support as claimed in claim 1, wherein a plurality of separately operable ventilation hole-closure devices is arranged at spaced positions along the length of the duct, each adapted two close a group of ventilation holes.      3. an electric cable and/or service pipe support  comprising metal means for supporting at least one electric  cable and/or at least one service pipe, and an elongate  metal duct housing said support means and divided trans  versely of its length into at least two separately formed  parts that are detachably secured together, wherein at least  one of said separately formed parts has at spaced positions  along its length, for cooling purposes, a ventilation hole or ventilation  holes for passage of air into and out of the duct and wherein, there is  mounted in the duct, a plurality of   ventilation hole-closure    devi ces  arranged at spaced positions along the'length of the duct,  each comprising  a substantially flat plate or sheet normally supported in such a position   with    respect to a group of ventilation holes it is arranged to close  that air can   flow into    and out of the duct but which, when automatically operated moves with respect to the duct in such a direction and to such an extent as to close said ventilation holes.    4. an electric cable andjor service pipe support as  claimed in claim 3, wherein each closure plate is spaced from the wall of the duct in which the ventilation holes  are present, and when automatically operated, is moved  transversely of the -duct and towards said wall to close the  ventilation holes.     5. an electric cable and/or service pipe support as claimed in claim 4, wherein each closure plate itself has a plurality of apertures which are not in direct alignment with the   associatedventilatin    holes and which, when the closure plate is automatically operated to close the ventilation holes, will themselves be closed by the wall   of,the    duct.   6   an    electric cable and/or service pipe support as claimed in any one of claims 3 to 5, wherein each closure plate has an associated spring loaded toggle mechanism or other means for locking the closure plate in the closed position.    . - .   7. an electric cable   and/or    service pipe support as claimed in claim 6, wherein the toggle mechanism comprises at least one lever which, at one of its ends, is pivoted above the closure plate and which, at the other of its ends, bears against the closure plate, the lever being so spring loaded that it is urged towards a position in which it will lie with its axis substantially normal to the closure plate, in which position the closure plate will be in its closed position.   8. an electric cable and/or service pipe support as claimed in any one of claims 3 to 7, wherein automatic operation of each closure plate is controlled by a release device which is exposed to the external environment and which will actuate the closure plate at said predetermined temperature.        9. an electric cable and/or service pipe support    as claimed in claim 8, wherein the release device comprises at least two separate members secured together by solder or other metal alloy or plastics material which will melt at said predetermined temperature to actuate the release device and allow the closure plate to move into the closed position.   10. an electric cable and/or service pipe support as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein each of the separately operable ventilation hole-closure devices comprises a strip of metal or metal alloy which is detachably supported above   a ventilation    hole or a group of ventilation holes and which carries a layer of intumescent material on its surface facing the ventilation hole or holes, the arrangement being such that, in the event that heat and/or flames caused by an external fire enter the duct through a ventilation hole or ventilation holes, the intumescent material will swell and block the hole or holes.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
