<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0005363
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19791114
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
A61L-15/16 A61F-13/472 C08F-8/44 A61F-13/15 C08F-8/00 A61L-15/60 A61F-13/53 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
process for the preparation of carboxyl-containing polymers in an anionic form in the dry state; interpolymers thus obtained.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
goodrich co b fus<sep>the b.f. goodrich company<sep>the b.f. goodrich company500 south main streetakron, ohio 44318us<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
janda dennis josephus<sep>westerman ira johnus <sep>janda, dennis joseph <sep>westerman, ira john <sep>janda, dennis joseph3177 coventry driveparma ohio 44134us<sep>westerman, ira john18552 royalton roadstrongville ohio 44136us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
carboxyl containing polymers in the neutralized ionic  form, of acrylic, methacrylic or maleic acid anhydrides,  usually copolymerized with esters, amides or nitriles, and  optionally with cross-linking agents, are polymerized in  non-aqueous systems in solvents for the monomers which  are non-solvents for the resulting copolymers and the acid  containing hydrophilic polymers thus obtained are neutralized  to form an ionic salt, as with an alkali base such as  naoh dissolved or suspended in aliphatic alcohols containing  less than 5 carbon atoms.  by this technique the neutralization  is conducted in the polymerization medium without  isolating the free acid copolymers and a resulting slurry  of uniform fine powder particles which are readily separated  is obtained.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
description "li@@@ethanol for @c carboxyl containing polymers iii in toxic work in a dry state." carboxyl containing polymers containing substantial quantities of of carboxyl groups find utility in many applications. such materials are described for example in u.s. patent 2,798,053 directed to carboxylic polymers such as acrylic acid, maleic acid, the anhydrides, and the like, and copolymers with cross-linking agents of polyalkenyl polyether of polyhydric alcohols containing more than one acrylic ester grouping per molecule and the alcohol containing at least 4 carbon atoms and at least 3 hydroxyl groups. such magerials are insoluble in water and organic solvents and in the form of their salts absorb large quantities of water or solvents. additional carboxyl type comonomers may be included in such copolymers including for example, methyl- acrylate, hexylacrylate,and the like. another useful class of carboxyl containing copolymers are those wherein the car- boxylic acid monomers are copolymerized with acrylic esters containing 10 to 30 carbon ators, which in the salt for are efficient water thickeners. these materials are described in u.s. patent 3,940,351. another related and improved class of such carboxyl containing copolyluers are those that contain in addition to the carboxylic acid, a mixture of acrylic or methacrylic esters wherein one of the esters has alkyl groups containing 10 to 30 carbon atoms and in the other the alkyl group contains 1 to 8 carbon atoms, optionally with a cross-linking agent. these materials are found to rapidly absorb and retain large quantities of water and ionic fluids. these materials are described in u.s. patent 4,062,817. other carboxylic polymers and copolymere such as those of acrylic acid, maleic acid, or the anhydrides also may be cross-linked to provide useful materials with divinyl benzene, unsaturated diesters and the like and these are disclosed in u. s. patents 2,340,110; 2,340,111 and 2,533,635. these and slirlilar related carboxyl containing polymers in nlany applications must be in the neutralized ionic form in order to function effectively. this is particularly so oe the acrylic acid, methacrylic acid, maleic acid and anhydried thcreof copolymers containing long chain alkyl acry la-es copoiyrtrizc'd therewith oplionally with cross-lining monomers. the water thickening properties of most of these carboxyl containing polymers preclude neutralization to the neutralized ionic form with aqueous bases, although neutra lizaticn schemes have been suggested using ammonia or organic amines. the resulting products often have heat stability problems and therefore an improved method for preparing carboxyl containing polymers in neutralized ionic form is desired. carboxyl containing polymers in neutralized ionic form are obtained by neutralizing carboxyl containing polymers in a nonaqueous slurry with an alkali base dissolved or suspended in a lower alcohol. the polymers include acrylic, methacrylic, or maleic acid or anhydride polymers, if in the form of copolymers, present in the amount of greater than 40 weight percent of acid, preferably copolymerized wit;i alkyl acrylates containing 1 to 30 carbon atoms, optionally with mixtures of short and long chain alkyl acrylic esters, amides or nitriles and also optionally with cross-linking agents. the carboxyl polymer
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims.    1. a process for the preparation of particulate carboxyl containing polymers in ionic form characterised by neutralizing said   carboxyl    containing polymer in a   non-aqueous    slurry   with    a base dissolved or suspended in a lower alcohol.    2. a process as claimed in claim 1 wherein said carboxyl   containin &     polymer   contains    greater than about 40 weight percent olefinically unsaturated carboxylic acid containing at least one activated carbon-to-carbon olefinic double bond and at least one carboxylic group copolymerized with from (1) o to 30 weight percent of an acrylic ester having the formula emi19.1       wherein r is an alkyl group containing 10 to 30 carbon   atoms,    (2) from 0 to 30 weight percent of another acrylic ester, nitrile or amide, said ester containing an alkyl group of 1 to 9 carbon atoms, and (3) a cross linking   agents    dispersed in an organic liquid that is less   polar    than acetone and is non-hydrogen bonding,  said basic material being an alkali dissolved or suspended in an hydroxyl compound containing one to five carbon atoms.    3. a process as claimed in claim 2 wherein said carboxylic acid is selected from acrylic acid, methacrylic acid and maleic acid or anhydrides thereof, said acrylic ester (1) contains an r group of 10 to 20 carbon atons and   r'    is hydrogen or methyl, present in said copolymer in amounts from about 2 to 20 weight percent, said other acrylic ester (2)   wherein    the alkyl group contains 1 to 6 carbon atoms, the amide is acrylamide or methacrylamide and the nitrile is acrylonitrile or methacrylonitrile and (3) from 0 to 3 weight percent of a polyfunctional   unsaturated    cross-linking monomer copolymerized therewith, the organic liquid being an  an aromatic hydrocarbon, aliphatic hydrocarbon ester or halogen containing hydrocarbon, and the alkali base being a sodium,  potassium or lithium compound in an alcohol   present    in amount to   react    with at least   30      weight    percent of the   coo      group4       4.    a process as claimed in claim 3 wherein said   carboxylic    acid is acrylic or methacrylic acid, said   cross-lin-li-in    agent is a polyalkenyl polyether containing more   than    one   alkenyl    ether group per molecule and an olefinic double bond is attached to a terminal methylene group   ch2=c#.       5. a process as clained in claim 4 wherein said carboxylic acid is acrylic acid present in amounts greater than 50 weight percent, and said halogen   containing    liquid is a chlorofluoroalkane.      6.    a process as claimed in claim 5 wherein said chlorofluoroalkane contains two carbon atoms and six halogen atoms.    7. a process as claimed in claim 6 wherein said acrylic ester (1) is present in amounts from 2 to 20 weight percent and is selected from isodecyl methacrylate, lauryl   methaciylate,    and stearyl methacrylate and said acrylic ester (2) is ethyl acrylate or methyl   methacry-      irate,    said alcohol is ethanol or methanol and said alkali is sodium hydroxide,   potassium    hydroxide or lithium hydroxide.    8. a process as claimed in claim 7 wherein (1) is present in amount from about 5 to 15 weight percent,   and    (2) is present in amount from about 15 to 25   weight    percent, there being about 0.01 to 0.5 weight percent of allyl pentaerythritol or allyl sucrose.    9. a process as claimed in claim 8   wherein    said   organic      liq1id    is 1,1,2-trichloro-1,2,2-trifluoroethane.    10. a process as claimed in claim 9 wherein (1) is   stearyl      methacrylate,    (2) is methyl methacrylate and said cross-linking agent is allyl pentaerythritol in amount from 0.05 to 0.2 weight percent.        11.    an interpolymer made   i)y      thc    process of claim 10 ;:herein (2) is   he:yl    methacrylate.    12. an interpolymer made by the process   cf    claim 10   -;herein    (2) is octyl acrylate.    13. an   ixzterpolymer    made by the process of claim 10   ,herein    (2) is 2-ethylhexyl methacrylate.    14. an interpolymer made by the process of claim 10   wherein    (2) is isopropyl methacrylate.    15. an interpolymer made by the process of claim 10 wherein there is 10 to 20 weight percent of (1) isodecyl methacrylate and (2) is methyl methacrylate.    16. a process as claimed in claim 4 wherein said alkali base is an   alkoxide.       17. a process for the preparation of particulate carboxyl containing polymers in ionic form comprising polymerizing a   carboxyl    containing monomer in an organic liquid in which said monomer is substantially soluble and in which the resulting   polymer    is substantially insoluble and neutralizing said carboxyl containing polymer with a base dissolved or suspended in a lower alkanol.    18. a process as claimed in claim 17 wherein said organic liquid is less polar than acetone and is nonhydrogen bonding, said carboxyl containing   monomer    is an olefinically unsaturated carboxylic acid containing at least one activated carbon-to-carbon olefinic double bond and at least one carboxylic group copolymerized with   (1)    from 0 to 30 weight percent of an acrylic ester having the formula: : emi21.1       wherein r is an alkyl group containing 10 to 30 carbon atoms (2) 0 to 30   weight    percent of another acrylic ester, nitrile or amide, said ester containing an   alkyl    group of 1 to 9 carbon atoms and a   cross-linlcing    agent, said basic material being an alkali dissolved or       @@@ in a hydroxyl compound containing 1 to 5 @@@rs and further comprising separating the    resulting particulate neutralized ionic salt from said organic liquid.    19   a    process as claimed in claim 18   wherein    said organic liquid is an aromatic hydrocarbon, aliphatic hydrocarbon, an ester or a chlorine or a halogen containing hydrocarbon   and    there is present greater than 50   wight    percent of   the    total monomer of a carboxylic acid selected from acrylic acid, methacrylic acid and maleic acid or anhydriden thereof, said acrylic ester (1)   contains    an   r    group of 10 to 20 carbon   atoms    and e' is hydrogen or   methyl    present in amounts from about 2 to 20   weight    percent1 in said other acrylic ester (2) the alkyl group contains 1 to g carbon atoms,  the amide is acrylamide or methacrylamide and the nitrile is acrylonitrile or methacrylonitrile and (3) from 0 to   3    weight percent of a polyfunctional unsaturated crosslinking monomer are copolymerized therewith, and said   alkali    base is a sodium, potassium or lithium compound in an alcohol present in amount to react with at least   30      weight    percent of the carboxyl groups.     20. a process as claimed in claim 19 wherein said carboxylic acid is acrylic or methacrylic acid, said cross-linking agent is a polyalkenyl polyether containing more than one   ab'enyl    ether group per molecule and an olefinic double bond is attached to a terminal methylene group   ch2=c#.        21. a process as claimed in claim 20 wherein said carboxylic acid is acrylic acid present in amounts greater than 50 weight percent, said acrylic ester (2) is methyl   methacrylate    or an alkyl acrylate wherein the   all    group contains 1 to 4 carbon atoms, said alkali base is a hydroxide dissolved in ethanol or methanol and said halogen   containing    liquid is a chlorofluroalkane, the resulting neutralized polymers in final      forn:    substantially free of water being obtained by separation from the organic liquid used in the polymerization.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
