<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0016613
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19801001
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
G05D-11/04 G05D-11/00 B01F-15/04 B01F-3/08 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
method and apparatus for mixing or blending of slurries.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
boulton ltd williamgb<sep>william boulton limited <sep>william boulton limitedprovidence engineering works navigation road burslemstoke-on-trent staffordshire gb  <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
birks ericgb<sep>birks, eric<sep>birks, eric c/o william boulton limitedprovidence engineering works navigation roadburslem stoke-on-trent staffordshiregb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
apparatus for the blending of slurries comprises a  blending vessel (7) into which the component slurries may  be introduced in turn, means for weighing the quantity of  each slurry introduced, means for sensing the volume of the  slurry, comparator means operable in response to signals  from the weighing means and the sensing means to  generate a signal proportional to the specific gravity of the  slurry, adjustment means operable in response to such  signal to adjust the specific gravity of the slurry to corres­ pond to a predetermined desired value, and means for  delivering each adjusted slurry in turn to a mixing vessel.   (8a, 8b, 8c).  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
method and apparatus for the mixing or blending of slurries the invention relates to a method and apparatus for the mixing or blending of slurries. in the production of clayware articles a number of ingredients are mixed together to form the clay "body", the nature, number and proportions of the ingredients being varied dependent on the desired end properties of the products to be produced from the'body. for purposes of eose of handling and to reduce dust the constituent materials are mixed together in slurry form, but this presents the problem that due to variations in the water content of the various slurries it becomes difficult to control accurately the dry weight of the various constituents, therefore the quality of the resultant cloy body can vary to an unacceptable extent. it is an object of the present invention to provide a method and apparatus far use in the mixing or blending of materials in which the above difficulties are obviated or mitigated. the invention provides apparatus for the blending of slurries comprising a blending vessel into which the component slurries may be introduced in turn, means for weighing the quantity of each slurry introduced, means for sensing the volume of the slurry, comparator means operable in response to signals from said weighing means and said sensing means to generate a signal proportionsl to the specific gravity of the slurry, adjustment neons operable in response to said signal to adjust the specific gravity of the slurry to correspond to a predetermined desired value, and means for delivering each adjusted slurry in turn to a mixing vessel. preferably said adjustment means is operable to effect introduction of water into each slurry in the blending vessel to vary its specific gravity, means is preferably provided to effect shut-down of the equipment in the event of the initial specific gravity reading of any of the constituent slurries generating a comparqtor sxgnal outside a predetermined range. preferably the apparatus includes three mixing vessels, selectively connectable to said blending vessel and selector means operable automatically to effect delivery of adjusted slurries in turn from said blending vessel to a selected empty one of said mixing vessels. preferably the arrangement is such that- sequential batches of flurry are delivered to, mixed in and discharged from- separate ones of said mixing vessels sequentially, whereby the mixing vessels become empty in sequence and are supplied with further batches of slurries from the blending vessel as they become empty. the apparatus may include supply vessels for containing quantities of the constituents to be mixed in said blending vessel, control means being provided to enable the selection of any combination of supply vessels and the supply of the contents thereof to said blending in sequence dependent upon the desired composition ofthe blended product. means may be provided to effect shut-down of the apparatus in the event of a selected supply vessel being empty or containing an inadequate supply of slurry. the apparatus may also include means for effecting one or two
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 patent   slatms         l.    apparatus for the- blending of slurries comprising a blending vessel into which the component slurries may be introduced in turn, characterised by means for weighing the quantity of each slurry introduced, means for sensing the volume of the slurry, comparator means operable in response to signals from said weighing means and said sensing means   generate    a signal proportional to the specific gravity of the slurry, adjustment means operable in response to said signal to adjust the specific gravity of the slurry to correspond to a predetermined desired value, and means for delivering   each-    adjusted slurry in turn to a mixing vessel (8a,   83,      8c).      2. apparatus according to claim   l    characterised in that said adjustment means is operable to effect introduction of water into each slurry in the blending vessel (7) to vary its specific gravity.   3. apparatus according to claim 1 or 2   characterised-by    means operable to effect shut-down of the equipment in the event of the initial specific gravity reading of any of the constituent slurries generating a comparator signal outside a predetermined range.   4. apparatus according to any preceding claim characterised by three mixing vessels (8a, 8b,   8c)      selectively    connectible to said blending vessel (7) and selector means operable automatically to effect delivery of adjusted slurries in turn from said blending vessel to a selected empty one of said mixing vessels.     5. apparatus according to claim 4 characterised in that the arrangement   issuch    that sequential batches of slurry are delivered to, mixed in and discharged from separate ones of said mixing vessels (8a, 8b,   8c)    sequentially, whereby the mixing vessels become empty in sequence and are supplied with further batches of slurries from the blending vessel (7) as they become empty.   6. apparatus according to any preceding claim   chåaracterised    by supply vessels (5) for containing' quantities of the constituents to be mixed in said blending vessel (7), control means being provided to enable the selection of any combination of supply vessels and the supply of the contents thereof to said blending vessel in sequence dependent upon the desired composition of the blended product.   7. apparatus according to claim 6 characterised by meansoperable to effect shut-down of the apparatus, in the event of a selected supply vessel (5) being empty or containing an inadequate supply of slurry.   8. apparatus according to any preceding claim characterised by means (11) for effecting at least one stage of separation of the slurry discharged from said mixing vessel (8a,-8b,   8c)    together with storage vessels (12) and magnetic separation equipment (15) to effect cleaning and storage of the final slurry.   9. a method of blending slurries characterised by introducing selected slurries sequentially into a blending vessel   (7),    automatically measuring the specific gravity of each slurry in turn, generating a signal in propprtion to the specific gravity of the slurry, automatically adjusting the constituents of the  slurry in response to said signal to alter the specific gravity to correspond to a control value, and discharging the adjusted slurries in turn to a common mixing vessel (8a, 8b,   8c).       10. a method according to claim 9 characterised in that said alteration of specific gravity is effected by introduction of water into each slurry in the blending vessel (7).   11. a method according to claim 9 or   10      charocterised    in that sequential batches of slurry are delivered to, mixed in and discharged from separate ones   of a    plurality of   mixing vessels    (8a, 8b, 8c) sequentially, the mixing vessels being supplied in turn with further batches of slur-ry from the blending vessel (7) as they become empty.   12. a method according to any of claims 9 to 11 characterised in that desired combinations of constituents are selected from a plurality of supply vessels (5) for delivery to said blending vessel (7) dependent on the desired composition of the blended product.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
