<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0003064
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19790725
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
A61K-9/00 A24D-3/00 A24D-3/06 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
method for introducing analogs of vitamin a into the respiratory tract of a cigarette smoker
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
rabam ltd <sep>rabam limited<sep>rabam limitedp.o. box 350hamilton bermudabm<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
sherman burton drus<sep>sherman, burton, dr.<sep>sherman, burton, dr.184 elmwood st. valley streamlong island new york, 11581us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
natural and synthetic analogs of vitamin a are introduced into the mouth and respiratory tract of a cigarette smoker in the form of droplets (11) or aerosol by incorporating the vitamin a analog in at least one rupturable capsule (13) contained within the mouthpiece end or over the entire length of a cigarette (1), which may also be filtered.  the capsules are rupturable under the influence of pressure or heat.  the heat can be derived from the hot tobacco smoke or directly from the burning tobacco charge. 
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
method for introducing analogs of vitamin a into the respiratory tract of a cigarette smoker this invention relates to a method for delivering retinoids into the respiratory tract of humans, and especially cigarette smokers, in order to enhance the prophylactic and therapeutic effects of the retinoid substances. more particularly, this invention relates to a method for introducing the congeners c derivatives and analogs of vitamin a, both naturally occurring and synthetically produced directly to the respiratory tract mucosa to enhance the prophylactic and therapeutic effects of these retinoid substances. it has been knon from u.s. patents 3,339,558 and 3,525,582, each issued to nelson j. waterbury to incorporate vitamin a which has been encapsulated in rupturable capsules into filtered and non-filtered cigarettes in order to introduce the vitamin a, in the form of droplets or aerosol, to the mouth and respiratory tract of the person smoking such cigarette. this invention is directed to an improvement in the method described in the waterbury patents. there has been a great deal of scientific literature published in recent years reporting the effects of retinoids, including both the effects of deficiencies of retinoids and applications of large doses of retinoids with respect to the prophylactic and therapeutic effects on the development of cancers, especially those cancers by polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons such as those wound in cigarette smoke. the evidence accumulated to date, including the studies of the present inventor, leave little doubt that the retinoid substances exert favorable effects on many types of experimentally produced cancers and in fact, there is published evidence demonstrating that the retinoids exert a direct topical effect on preventing the formation of tumors in respiratory tract mucosa in vitro. however, when vitamin a is used as the retinoid substance favorable effects are only demonstrated when large oral mega doses are utilized. however, such large dosages of vitamin a needed to produce blood levels of the vitamin which are adequate to demonstrate a prophylactic or therapeutic response are also so high that they generally produce toxic side effects due to hypervitaminosis a. specific adverse side effects associated with high dosages of vitamin a, whether in the pure form or as the more conventionally used palmitate form include liver, skin and eye damage. therefore, to avoid the undesirable side effects associated with the large oral dosages of vitamin a needed to produce adequate blood levels of the vitamin to exhibit the intended prophylactic or therapeutic response there have been developed many new synthetic analogs of vitamin a which have also been shown co have good anti-tumor activity and none or only low toxic side effects when given orally. nevertheless, while many of these newly developed retinoids are much safer for use than vitamin a, it is still desireable to decrease the dosage required of the retinoid substance to achieve the desired effect. still further, for the population at large for which the occurrence of lung cancer and related ailments is highest, namely cigarette smokers, it would be highly desireable to provide a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
what is claimed is:    claim 1. a method of introducing a natural or synthetic analog of vitamin a into the mouth and respiratory tract of a smoker which comprises  locating at least one heat or pressure rupturable capsule containing a controlled amount of a vitamin a analog selected from the group consisting of compounds of the following formulas:  and emi27.1       (i)    (ii)     (iii) wherein in the ring a emi27.2       is a five or six   membered, rmro-    or diunsaturated or aromatic hydrocarbon ring, which may include a nitrogen or oxygen hetero atom in the ring, and which may include one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of lower alkyl, lower alkoxy, halogen, lower alkoxyalkyl and lower acyl;  x1, x2 and x3 are each a hydrogen atom or one of them may be a halogen atom; and  r is a member selected from the group consisting of -cho, -coor1 emi27.3         -conhr4,      -r50r6,    -r7nhcor8, -chnoh,   -ch & hcor9,    emi27.4       and -copo3,  wherein r1 is a hydrogen atom or lower alkyl; r2 is alkyl of 1 to 20 carbon atoms; r3 is lower alkyl; r4 is a hydrogen atom or lower alkyl; r5 is lower alkyl; r6 is lower alkyl; r7 is lower alkyl; r8 is lower alkyl;   rg    is lower alkyl; and r10 is a hydrogen atom or lower alkyl; in at least the mouth end of a cigarette having a tobacco charge;  rupturing each vitamin a analog containing capsule immediately before or during smoking to thereby release said vitamin a analog in the form of tiny droplets or an aerosol for exposure to the smoke passing through said cigarette; and smoking said cigarette whereby said tiny droplets or aerosol of said vitamin a analog will be carried in the smoke to the mouth and respiratory tract of the smoker.    claim 2. the method of claim 1 wherein a single pressure rupturable capsule is used, and wherein said capsule is ruptured by application of pressure thereto immediately before smoking.    claim 3. the method of claim 2 wherein said cigarette further comprises a filter medium   downstream    from said tobacco charge, and said capsule is in contact with said filter medium,  claim 4. the method according to claim 1 wherein a plurality of pressure rupturable capsules are used, and wherein at least the majority of said   capsule    are ruptured by application of pressure thereto immediately before smoking.    claim 5. the method according to claim 4 wherein said cigarette further comprises a filter medium downstream from said tobacco charge, and at least the majority of said capsules are in  contact with and uniformly distributed throughout said filter medium.    claim 6. the method according to claiml wherein a plurality of heat rupturable capsules are used, said capsules being relatively uniformly distributed over the length of said cigarette, said capsules being rupturable under the influence of either hot tobacco smoke or the heat of the burning tobacco charge.    claim 7. the method of claim 6 wherein said heat rupturable capsules comprise a multiplicity of microcapsules.    claim 8. the method of claim 1 wherein in said vitamin a analog said ring a is selected from the group consisting of emi29.1          claim 9. the method of claim 1 wherein in said vitamin a analog r is selected from the group consisting of -cho, -cooh,   -ch20coch3,    - (ch2)   14ococh3,    -conhch3, -conhc2h5,   -conh(ch2ch3)2'      -ch2och33      -ch2nhcoch3,    -chnoh,   -chnnhcoch3,      - c h20c4h g,    -cooch3,   -cooc2h5,    emi30.1       and -copo3.    claim 10. the   method    of claim 1 wherein said vitamin a analog is selected from the group consisting of n-retinyl phthalimide,   s-retinoic    acid, a-retinoic acid, cyclopentenyl analog of retinoic acid, trimethylmethoxyphenyl analog of retinoic acid, phenyl analog of retinoic acid, trimethylmethoxyphenyl analog of ethyl retinoate, pyridyl analog of retinoic acid, furyl analog of retinoic acid, 13-cis-retinoic acid,   ss-retinyl    acetate, a-retinyl acetate, methyl retinoate, ethyl retinoate, n-echylretinamide, n,n-diethylretinamide, trimethylmethoxyphenyl analog of n-ethylretinamide, l-methoxyethyl cyclopentenyl analogue of retinoic acid, retinyl methyl ether, n-acetylretinylamine, retinal acetyl hydrazone.   retinal   crime,      chlorctrimethylphenyl    analogue of   retinoi    acid.-  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
