<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0006507
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800109
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B65H-35/02 B65H-35/00 D06H-7/00 H05F-3/02 B26D-1/01 B65H-23/188 B65H-23/00 D06H-7/22 B65H-23/04 B26D-1/24 B65H-23/26 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
apparatus for cutting ribbons from rolls of textile fabrics made of heat weldable yarns
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
felice ignazio de <sep>de±felice, ignazio<sep>de felice, ignaziovia leonardo da vinci 17i-21012 cassano magnago vareseit<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
de felice ignazio<sep>de±felice, ignazio<sep>de felice, ignaziovia leonardo da vinci 17i-21012 cassano magnago vareseit<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
an apparatus for cutting ribbons from rolls of textile fabrics made of heat weldable yarns is disclosed, essentially comprising means (1, 2, 4, 5, 6) for unwinding the fabric with a controlled adjustable tension, means for controlling and synchronizing speed of the fabric driving rollers, means (63, 64, 68) for automatic pneumatic centering of fabric fed to rotary cutters, means for removing electrostatic charges present on the fabric surface and finally means for controlling pick up and winding tension of the cut ribbons and selvedges.  this apparatus avoids jamming and entanglement of the ribbons, does not require the constant control of an operator, carries out the cutting operation at high speed, still maintaining a high degree of precision and reliability. =
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
"apparatus for cutting ribbons from rolls of textile fabrics made of heat weldable yarns the present invention relates to an apparatus for cutting and winding ribbons obtained from rolls of textile fabrics made of heat weldable yarns. it is known that heat weldable yarns are usually heat cut and there are already available some simple devices with rotary cutters to obtain ribbons from pieces of said textile fabrics, but these equipments require a continuous control of the operator to avoid jamming, entanglement and other drawbacks always resulting in time consumption and damages, to materials due to lack of effective systems for. controlling and adjusting the several operations of the devices. in addition to removing these drawbacks by a highly automated apparatus with rotary cutters, which does not require the constant control of an operator, the present invention allows to carry out the operation of cutting ribbons at high speed, still maintaining a high degree of precision and reliability, the whole allowing a far greater output. the particular features of the apparatus for cutting ribbons according to the present invention essentially comprise means for unwinding the fabric with a controlled adjustable tension, means for controlling and synchronizing speed of the fabric driving rollers, means for automatic pneumatic centering of fabric fed to rotary cutters, means for removing eletrostatic charges present on the fabric surface and finally means for controlling pick up and winding tension of the cut ribbons and selvedges. in the following detailed description of a preferred embodiment of the apparatus according to the present invention, the main particular features will be pointed out, besides the additional features which are also to be considered for carrying out some operations in an optional manner; also the operation of the apparatus will be described and the various advantages obtainable will be pointed out too; it has to be noted that such a preferred embodiment is given merely as an illustrative example only and it has not to be construed as limiting the scope of the invention. with reference now to the accompanying drawings: fig. 1 is a perspective view of the entire apparatus according to the principles of the present invention; fig. 2 is a rear view of the apparatus, particularly showing the rollers for winding the cut ribbons and selvedges; fig. 3 is a diagram of the apparatus feed showing the complete processing path from the roll to the ribbons; fig. 4 is a diagram of the connection of gearing controlling feed and cutting of ribbons and also cutting and recovery of selvedges; fig. 5 is a diagram of the connection of gearing controlling recovery and winding of cut ribbons; fig. 5a is a diagram of the connection of two complementary parts of the shaft bearing the cores for winding cut ribbons; fig. 6 is a partially sectioned view of the dr#y friction adjustable coupling between driving pulley and shaft for winding cut ribbons or selvedges; ; fig. 7 is a diagram of the pneumatic servo control circuitry for automatic centering
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims.    1. an apparatus for cutting ribbons from rolls of textile fabrics made of heat weldable yarns by means ofa set of rotary blades heated supported by a shaft, characterized by the fact of essentially comprising means for unwinding the fabric with a controlled adjustable tension, means for controlling and synchronizing speed of the fabric driving rollers, means for automatic centering of the fabric fed to the rotary cutters, means for removing electrostatic charges, present on the fabric surface and means for controlling pick up and winding tension of the cut ribbons and selvedges.    2. an apparatus according to claim 1, characterized by the fact that said means for removing electrostatic charges built up on the cut ribbons, due to friction during the processing motion, consists of a proximity bar (25a) connected to ground network, arranged parallel to a driving roller (19), and controlled and fed by a console.    3. an apparatus according to claim 1, characterized by the fact that said means for unwinding the fabric with controlled tension consist of an adjustable pneumatic brake (2) or disc   brakeacting    on the unwinding roller (1) from which the fabric piece is being unwound as well as of a spring supported dandy roller (4).      4. an apparatus according to claim 1, characterized by the fact that said means for controlling and synchronizing speed of the fabric driving rollers consist of a variable speed electric motor (m) driving through a first chain (31) the fabric driving rollers (10, 11) the cutting device and the selvedge pick up device and through a second chain (43) the devices for winding cut ribbons.    5. an apparatus according to claim 3, characterized by the fact that the gears (33, 35) driving the fabric driving rollers (10, 11) arranged before and after the cutting station, and the gear (39) driving the cutter holding shaft (12), have all the same pitch diameter so as to impart the same speed to the correspondingly driven shaft and rollers.    6. an apparatus according to claims 1 and 3, characterized by the fact that the device for picking up selvedges and the devices for winding cut ribbons consist of shafts (26, 23, 24) coupled to the corresponding gears (42,44,45) of the control chains (31, 43) through said means for controlling pick up and winding tension of the cut ribbons and selvedges.    7. an apparatus according to claim 1 and 6, characterized by the fact that said means for controlling pick up and winding tension of cut ribbons and selvedges consist of mechanical clutches (47, 48, 49) hand adjustable by  preloading elastic members such as   springs (53),    whereby winding tension and speed of selvedges is higher than that of cut ribbons.    8. an apparatus according to claim 1, characterized by the fact that said means for automatic centering of fabric fed to the cutting station, consists of a pneumatic control causing a double acting cylinder (58) to reciprocate, said cylinder being fixed to a movable supporting frame (68) for the fabric roll being unwound, whereby the fabric roll is kept centered.    9. an apparatus according to claim 8, characterized by the fact that the pneumatic control comprises an alternative distributor (56) of air to both chambers of the double acting cylinder (58) controlled by a commutator (57) reacting to presence or absence of a pneumatic signal which is generated by the position of the edge of the fabric being unwound.    10. an apparatus according to claim 1, characterized by the fact that the rotary cutters are associated with blades (17) for keeping the just cut ribbons separated and there-after rollers (102) preloaded with inner spring (104) are provided for tensioning ribbons before the final winding operation.    11. an apparatus according to claim 1, characterized by  the fact that one or more thrust bearing stands (82) are associated with the rotary cutters, in order to keep the cutter holding shaft (12) under pressure and aligned with the fabric to be cut.    12. an apparatus according to claim 1, characterized by the fact that inside the cutter holding shaft there is an electric heating resistance (77) fed through rotary slip rings (93) and bushes (94) by a current regulator so as to change the cutting temperature.    13. an apparatus according to claim 12, characterized by the fact that the electric resistance (77) is of a mini#turized diameter.    14. an apparatus according to claim 11, characterized by the fact that the cutter holding shaft (12) can be lowered to the cutting position or raised to the inoperative position by means of a pair of pneumatic cylinders (14), a powered rack (91) or worm screw and like systems.    15. an apparatus according to claim 1, characterized by the fact that the rotary cutters (78) are locked and rigidly fixed to the cutter holding shaft (12) by means of two fixed locking rings (96) and a pair of expansion rings (98, 99) which being screwed together like a turnbuckle tighten the cutters and lock them on the shaft.    16. an apparatus according to claim 1, characterized  by the fact that the fabric guide rollers (7, 8, 9, 18) have a metal smooth surface.    17. an apparatus according to claim 1, characterized by the fact that the   fabricdrivingrollers      (10,    11, 19,20) have a surface made of rubber or other material ensuring a minimum friction for moving the fabric.    18. an apparatus according to claim 17, characterized by the fact that the driving roller (19) arranged after the cutting station is cooperating with a counterroller (20) which may be moved away from the contact with said driving roller for threading the tip of the fabric piece.     19. an apparatus according to claim 6, characterized by the fact that the shafts (23, 24) for winding cut ribbons can be detached from one of the shoulders of the apparatus and swung outwardly relative to the other shoulder on which they are pivotally connected by means of a rotary support (75) provided with a crown of thrust bearing balls.    20. an apparatus according to claim 6,   characteri..ed    by the fact that the shafts (26) for picking up   sel##d#cs    are two, each fixed to one shoulder of the apparatus and with a selvedge winding reel (25) that can be moved along the shaft, said shafts being connected to each other by a connecting bar (27).  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
