<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0009915
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800416
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
F01C-1/20 F04C-18/14 F04C-18/20 F01C-1/00 F01C-1/12 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
rotary positive displacement machines.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
brown arthur e<sep>brown, arthur e.<sep>brown, arthur e.box 78, r.d. 1lake george, new york 12845us <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
brown arthur e <sep>brown, arthur e. <sep>brown, arthur e.box 78, r.d. 1lake george, new york 12845us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
the machine may function as a rotary compressor,  vacuum pump, expansion engine, or blower.  two rotors  (1,2) interengage inside a housing (5).  the first rotor (1)  opens and closes higher pressure ports (15) in the end  walls of the housing (5).  the first rotor (1) has a larger  diameter hub (6) than that (8) of the co-acting second rotor  (2) so as to permit the ports (15) to be larger in area.  the  optimum number of teeth or lobes (7,9) for each rotor (1,2)  is two.  so as to reduce an internal throttling loss between the  large diameter first rotor hub (6) and the casing (3), (a) the  hub (6) has two grooves (10) instead of one and (b) the  grooves (10) are large in angle.  the lobes (7) on the first rotor (1) are smaller in angle  whereas the lobes (9) on the second rotor (2) are larger in  angle.  the rotary shaft power transmitted through the two  timing gears is less than one half of the total.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
title: rotary positive displacement machines. this invention relates to rotary positive displacement machines. prior art machines and their disadvantages will now be described with reference to figures 1 to iii of the accompanying drawings: figs. 1 to iii herein are prior art drawings, the purpose of which are tv illustrate certain problems with the prior art. fis. 1 to iii are similar to fig. xix of u.s. patent 3,472,445. referring to fig. i, the diameter 3 of the first rotor hub is larger than diameter c of the second rotor hub and thus the radial dimension a (between hub and casing) is relatively small. therefore, the flow of air or gas is restricted at dimension a and there is a throttling loss (energy loss) there. another disadvantage with figs. i to iii (prior art) is that during a portion of each rotor rotation there is a dwell period during which no displacement occurs. the dwell period can be seen in figs. n and v of patent 3,472,445 and lasts about 90 degrees. during the dwell period, no gas is drawn into the inlet port and the flow through same is completely stopped once per rotation. thus, the flow of gas into the inlet port has a start - stop - start - stop action which would have p detrimental effect on efficiency and noise fig, xix of patent 3,472,445 is non workable as shown because the right rotor is not balanced and sever vibration would take place. it would be difficult to counterbalance same in a practical manner because the hub is so small in diameter; and thus there is little room for counter-weighting inside the small hub. in fig. xix of patent 3,472,445 the groove in the left rotor hub and the lobe on the right rotor are both too small (in their inclined angle) to permit optimum performance as will subsequently be explained. also in fig. xlx of patent 3,472,445 the rotors have small angle left grooves and small angle right lobes which are disadvantageous as will be explained. the advantages sought for the specific embodiments of the invention are hereinafter specified with reference to figs. iv to x of the accompanying drawings.- 1. the first objective is to increase the area of the higher pressure ports 15 so as to reduce the throttling loss (pressure drop) through same. this objective is made possible by employing a larger diameter hub 6 on the first rotor and then a smaller diameter hub 8 on the second rotor. the ports 15 are opened and closed by the hub 6 and thus a larger diameter hub 6 permits the ports 15 to have a larger outer radius and thus be larger in area. 2. the second objective is to provide simple rotors but at the same time accomplish said first objective. the rotors are simple because they retain a constant (and non helical) cross section profile the full width of the rotors; and there are no end plates on the rotors.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:   1. a rotary positive displacement machine adapted to handle a working fluid, comprising a casing structure (5) having two intersecting bores (3,4) a   @@rst    rotor (1) mounted for rotation on one said bore (3) a second rotor (2) mounted for   rotation      in      '-tlc      ot'ar    said bore (4), each rotor (1,2) having a hub (6,8) and et least two lobes (7,9), each lobe (7,9) attached to a respective hub (6,8) and projecting rad outward to the outer radius of the rotor, each hub (6,8) having at least two grooves (10,11) therein, each groove(10 or 11)being located adjacent a respective lobe (7,9), timing gear means (12,13) constrainin said two rotors (1,2) to rotate in opposite directions of rotation, said two rotors interengaging as they rotate,  said two hubs (6,8) being   profiled    rotate in sealing relation to each other during g e portion of each rotation, said casing   struct- >        e    having a lower pressure port (14) for the passage of the working fluid at lower pressure, said casing structure (5) also having a higher   pressure    port 6 3 for the passage of the working fluid at eigher pressure, said higher pressure port (15) being   locater in ---    wall of the bore (3) containing   sald    first   rotor    (1),  the said hub (6) of the first   rotor    (1) and itsgrooves (10) therein serving to alternately cover and uncover said higher pressure port (15) so as to   contrcj    the flow of the working fluid through the higher perssure port (15), characterised in that the outer radius   c    the hub (6) of the first rotor (1) is substantially larger than the outer radius of the hub (8)   r      the    second rotor (2), the outer radius of said higbar perssure port (15) being substantially larger then the outer radius of the hub (8)   cf    the set rotor (2)  as to increase the flow area of the higher pressure port (15), said outer radius of the higher perssure port (15) being measured from the axis of rotation of the first rotor    (1)    2. a rotary positive displacement machine as claimed in claim 1, wherein each lobe (9) on the second rotor (2) is substantially larger in angle than each lobe (7) on the first rotor (1), each groove   (1o,    in   tb.e    hub (6) of the first rotor (1) is substantially larger in angle than each groove (11) in the hub (7) of   e    second rotor (2), each lobe (9) on the second rotor (2) being adapted to   interengage    with a respective groove   (10)    on the hub (6) of the first rotor (1) as the rotors rotate,  said grooves (10) in the hub (6) of the first rotor   (n)    serving to increase the flow area for the flow of working fluid flowing in a   circumferential    direction   between      the    first rotor (1) and the casing bore (3) during portions of the rotor cycle,  a benefit of making the grooves (10) in the hub (6) of the first rotor larger in angle (as specified in this claim) is to reduce a throttling loss of the working fluid   which    flows in the   ircvwm-    ferential direction betwenn the first rotor   (1)    and the casing bore (3),   and    wherein a benefit of employing two grooves (10) in   zhe    first rotor hub (6) (instead of a single   groove)    is also to reduce a throttling loss of the working fluid which flows in a circumferential direction between the first rotor (1) and the casing bore (3) during portions of the rotor cycle 3. a   rotary      positive    displacement fluid machin e as claimed in either claim 1 or claim 2, wherein an external drive shaft is coupled to said second   @@@@    (2) and wherein the purpose of coupling said external drive shaft to the second rotor (2) instead or to the first  rotor   (n)    is to reduce the per cent   c    power transmitted through said timing   13).         4.    a rotary positive displacemen claimed in claim 3, wherein said exter is coupled to said second rotor (2) direct connection.   5. a rotary positive displacement   @n    claimed in claim 3, wherein said   external @@ @ @nadt    is coupled to said second rotor (2) by gear set.   6. a rotary positive displacement   @a@@@    claimed in claim 1, wherein the lobes   7       '--- - -      rotor (1) are substantially smaller 1 - in    lobes (9) on the second rotor (2), and  & a making the lobes on the first rotor (1)   @      @      @    angle (as specified in this claim) is to certain precompression and subsequent   --    (when operating as a compresor machine an expansion loss (when operating as engine),  and a purpose of making the lo   @      @      @      second rotor (2) larger in angle (as sp @ @ @    claim) is to reduce a throttling   los    fluid flowing through said higher prest 7. a rotary positive   displacement      claimed in any one of claims 1 to 6, r--' o    that the profile of said first rotor ( each groove (10) has a convex rounded per the juncture where the groove (10)   joi@    radius of the hub (6),  the radius o   c    rounded juncture (pq) exceeds the re  the pitch circle of the first rotor (1) to the outer radius of   the hub    (6) of the first rotor (1) and wherein a benefit of   rounding    said juncture   (?)       12    to reduce a throttling loss of the working   fluid    flowing between the first rotor (1) and the casing bore   (3).         8.      h    rotary   positive    displacement machine as claimed in claim 2, characterised in that each lobe (7) on the first rotor (1) is substantially   smaller    in angle than   eath    lobe (9) on the second rotor (2), a benefit of making the lobes (7,9) on the first rotor (1) smaller in angle (as specified in this claim) is to reduce a certain precompression and subsequent throttling loss (when operating as a compressor machine) and to reduce an expansion loss (when operating as an expansion engine), and a benefit of making the lobes (9) on the second rotor larger in angle (as specified   n    this claim) is to reduce a throttling loss of the working fluid flowing through said higher pressure port   (15).       9. a   rotary    positive displacement machine as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the number of said   lobe    (7,9)   contained    by each rotor (1,2) being exactly two, 10. a rotary positive displacement machine as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein said timing gear means (12,13) also constrains said two rotors (1,2) to rotate at equal rpm.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
