<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0005025
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19791031
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<main>B65D-1/26</main> B65D-1/16 B65D-1/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
lightweight metal container.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
ball corpus<sep>ball corporation<sep>ball corporation 345 south high streetmuncie indiana 47302us <sep>ball corporation<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
miller edward c<sep>straw david allen<sep>miller, edward c.<sep>straw, david allen<sep>miller, edward c.1330 holly drivebroomfield coloradous<sep>straw, david allen1841 south arbutus courtlakewood coloradous<sep>miller, edward c.  <sep>straw, david allen<sep>miller, edward c.1330 holly drivebroomfield coloradous<sep>straw, david allen1841 south arbutus courtlakewood coloradous<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a lightweight metallic container is disclosed and claimed  having a side wall and an effective rigid bottom wall integral  therewith.  the side wall and bottom wall merge to define a  first inclined face, the inclined face forming an angle of  between about 35° and 45° with respect to the axis of said  container, a tapered member is provided and is integrally  formed at the juncture of the side wall and inclined face, the  member having a taper angle in a given range and a given  wall taper thickness, an annular surface integrally connected  to the first inclined wall for supporting the container, a  second inclined face integrally connected to the annular  surface, and a curved panel integrally connected with the  second inclined face.  the curved panel is so formed that it  has a radius of curvature greater than the diameter of the  annular surface.  the height of the second inclined face is less  than half the height of the first inclined face.  the metallic  container as so defined has an improved bottom configuration  that provides for substantial column strength as well as  internal pressure stability.  one important feature of the  subject bottom configuration is the reduced amount of metal  used to manufacture the container.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
ligistweight metal container the present invention relates to metal container bodies and more particularly to metal container bodies of the seamless variety comprised of a side wall and a bottom formed integrally therewith. the container bottom of the subject invention has an improved configuration to provide for adequate column strength along the vertical axis of the container as well as stability against internal pressure generated by the contents of the container after it has been closed and sealed. there have been numerous container configurations produced by manufacturers and this has been especially true for the two-piece container manufacturer, that is, a container having a body that has an integral bottom wall at'an end and the opposite end is' configured to have a closure secured thereto. container manufacturers package beverages of various types in these containers formed of either steel or aluminum alloys. ' the most ideal type of container bottom wall would be a flat wall which would allow for maximum capacity for a given container with a minimum height. however, such a container is not economically feasible because in order to prevent deformation the thickness of the bottom wall would have to be of such magnitude that the cost of the container would be prohibitive. in order to negate these costs drawing and ironing processes have been installed and extensively used in recent years, especially for the aluminum container industry. in the production of these containers that utilize drawing and ironing it is important that the body wall and bottom wall of the container be as thin as possible so that the container can be sold at a competitive price. much or has been done on thinning the body wall. aside from seeking thin body wall structures various bottom wall configurations have been investigated. in this regard strength of the container was a paramount factor in these investigations. an early attempt in seeking sufficient rigidity of the bottom wall is to form the same into a spherical, dome configuration. the bottom wall is thereby provided with an outwardly concave dome or depression which extends substantially throughout the bottom wall of the container. in effect, this domed configuration provides increased strength and resists deformation of the bottom wall under increased internal pressure of the container with little change in the overall geometry of the bottom wal throughout the pressure range for which the container is designed. various modifications of the dome configuration hae been manufactured. in this regard, the dome structure itself was integrally formed with other curvilineal or walled-members, usually at different inclinations to that of the longitudinal axis of the container in order to further strengthen the container structure. although such modifications rendered improved ridigity and stability it has been found that such characteristics can still be achieved and in some aspects even improved upon with a minimum of metal being required. although this domed configuration allows container manufacturers to somewhat reduce the metal thickness,these manufacturers are continuously working on techniques that will allow for further reduction in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:      1.    a lightweight metal container having a side wall and an effective rigid bottom wall integral therewith, said side wall and bottom wall merging to define a first inclined face, said inclined face forming an angle of between about 350 and 450 with respect to the axis of said container the ratio of the thickness of said bottom wall to the thickness of said side wall being about 3.2 or less, a tapered member integrally formed at the juncture of said side wall and inclined face, said member having a taper angle in the range of about 1.30 to about 2.20 and a wall taper thickness of between about 0.006 inch and about 0.010 inch, an annular surface integrally connected to said first inclined wall for supporting the container, a second inclined face integrally connected to the annular surface,  the height of said second inclined face being less than half the height of said first inclined face, and a curved panel integrally connected with said second inclined face, said curved panel having a radius of curvature greater than the diameter of   the,.      annular surface  2. -the container of claim 1, wherein said first inclined face forms an angle in the range of about 400 with respect to the axis of the container.    3. the container of claim 1 or 2, wherein  said taper angle is about   1.50    and the wall taper 'thickness is about 0.007 inch.    4. a lightweight metal container capable of withstanding a substantial internal pressure without eversion comprising a unitary structure having a seamless cylindrical side wall and a bottom wall integrally formed with said side wall at the lower portion thereof the ratio of the thickness of said bottom wall to the thickness of said side wall being about 3.2 or less said bottom wall comprising a tapering surface extending downwardly from said side wall, said tapering surface forming a taper angle in the range of about   1.30    to about   2.20    and a wall taper thickness of between about 0.006 inch and about 0.010 inch in excess of said side wall, an outer frustoconical surface extending downwardly and inwardly from said tapering surface toward the axis of said container,  said outer frustoconical surface forming a bottom angle between about 350 and about 450 with respect to the axis of the container, a bottom radius integrally connected with an extending downwardly from said outer frustoconical surface providing an annular supporting surface for the container, an inner frustoconical surface integrally connected with said bottom radius and extending upwardly and inwardly from said annular supporting surface toward the axis of said container,  the height of said inner frustoconical surface  being less than half the height of said outer frustoconical surface and a downwardly concaved center panel integrally connected with said inner frustoconical surface and extending upwardly and inwardly from said inner frustoconical surface to the axis of said container   ?    said downwardly concaved center panel having a radius of curvature greater than the diameter of the annular supporting surface.      5.    the container of claim 5, wherein the radius of curvature of said downwardly concaved center panel is in the range of about 2.250 inches to about 3.000 inches.    6. the container of claim 4 or 5, wherein said inner frustoconical surface forms an angle in the range of about   8     to about 200 with respect to the axis of the container.    7. the container of any of the preceding claims, wherein said taper angle is about   1.50    and the wall taper thickness is about 0.007 inch.    8. the container of any of the preceding claims, wherein said taper angle is about   2.00    and the wall taper thickness is about 0.009 inch.      9. a lightweight metal container capable of withstanding a substantial internal pressure without eversion comprising a unitary structure having a seamless cylindrical side wall and a bottom wall integrally formed with the side wall at the lower portion thereof, the ratio of the thickness of said bottom wall to the thickness of said side wall being about 3.2 or less, said bottom wall comprising a tapering surface extending downwardly from the side wall said tapering surface forming a taper angle between about 1.30 to about   2.20    and a wall taper thickness between about 0.006 inch and about 0.010 inch in excess of the side wall, an outer frustoconical surface extending downwardly and inwardly from said tapering surface toward the axis of said container,  said outer frustoconical surface forming a bottom angle between about 350 and about 450 with respect to the axis of the container, a bottom radius integrally connected with and extending downwardly from said outer frustoconical surface providing an annular supporting surface for the container said annular supporting surface having a diameter in the range of about 2.05 inches to about 2.2 inches, an inner frustoconical surface integrally connected with said bottom radius and extending upwardly and inwardly toward' the axis of said container, the height of said inner frustoconical surface being less than half the height of said outer frustoconical surface,  and a downwardly concaved center panel integrally connec  ted with said inner frustoconical surface and extending upwardly and inwardly from said inner frustoconical surface to the axis of said container to a height slightly above the height of said outer frustoconical surface.    10. the container of claim 9, wherein said taper angle is about 1.50 and the wall taper thickness is 0.007 inch.    11. the container of claim 9 or 10, wherein said radius of curvature of said downwardly concaved center panel is about 2.900 inches.    12. the container of claim 9, 10 or 11, wherein said inner frustoconical surface forms an angle of about 160 with respect to the axis of the container.    13. the container of claim 9, 10 or 11, wherein said inner frustoconical surface forms an angle of about 120 with respect to the axis of the container.    14. a lightweight metal container capable of withstanding a substantial internal pressure without eversion comprising a unitary structure having a seamless cylindrical side wall and a bottom wall integrally formed with the side wall at the lower extremity thereof the ratio of the thickness of said bottom wall to the thick  ness of said side wall being 3.2 or less, said bottom wall comprising a tapering surface extending downwardly from the side wall, said tapering surface forming a taper angle of between 1.30 and about   2.2     and a wall taper thickness of between about 0.006 inch and about 0.010 inch in excess of the side wall, an outer frustoconical surface extending downwardly and inwardly from said side wall toward the axis of said container,  said outer frustoconical surface forming a bottom angle of between about 350 to about   450    with respect to the axis of the container, a bottom radius integrally connected with and extending downwardly from said outer frustoconical surface providing an annular supporting surface of the container, said annular supporting surface having a diameter in the range of about 2.05 inches to about 2.2 inches, an inner frustoconical surface integrally connected with said bottom radius and extending upwardly and inwardly from said annular supporting surface toward the axis of the container, said inner frustoconical surface forming an angle in the range of between about   12"    to about   160    with respect to the axis of the container,   the height of said inner frustoconical surface being less than half the height of said outer frustoconical surface, and a downwardly concaved center panel integrally connected with said inner frustoconical surface and extending upwardly and inwardly from said inner frustoconical surface to the axis of said container, the radius of   curvature of said downwardly concaved center panel being between about 2.250 inches and about 3.000 inches, said center panel extending at its uppermost portion slightly above said height of said outer frustoconical surface.    15. the container as recited in claim 14, wherein the cylindrical side wall is about 0.0034 inch to about 0.0055 inch in thickness.    16. the container as recited in claim 14, 15 or 16, wherein the dome height is between about 0.290 inch and 0.375 inch.    17. the container as recited in any of preceding claims 4 to 16, wherein the metal is aluminum or an alloy thereof.    18. the container as recited in any of preceding claims 4 to 16, wherein the metal is iron or an alloy thereof.    19. a lightweight aluminum-base alloy container capable of withstanding a substantial internal pressure without eversion comprising a unitary structure having a seamless cylindrical side wall and a bottom wall integrally formed with the side wall at the lower extremity thereof, the ratio of the thickness of said bottom  wall to the thickness of said side wall being about 3.0 or less, said bottom comprising a tapering surface extending downwardly from the side wall said surface forming a taper angle of about 20 and a wall taper thickness of about 0.009 inch in excess of said side wall, an outer frustoconical surface extending downwardly and inwardly from said side wall toward the axis of said container, said outer frustoconical surface forming a bottom angle of about 400 with respect to the axis of the container,  a bottom radius integrally connected with and extending downwardly from said outer frustoconical surface providing an annular supporting surface for the container, said annular supporting surface having a diameter of about 2.10 inches, an inner frustoconical surface integrally connected with said bottom radius and extending upwardly and inwardly from said annular supporting surface toward the axis of the container, said inner frustoconical surface forming an angle of about 120 with respect to the axis of the container, the height of said outer frustoconical surface, and a downwardly concaved center panel integrally connected with said inner frustoconical surface and extending upwardly and inwardly from said inner frustoconical surface to the axis of said container,  the radius of curvature of said downwardly concaved center panel being greater than the diameter of the annular supporting surface, said center panel extending at its uppermost portion slightly above said height  of said frustoconical surface  20. the container of claim 19, wherein said side wall of said container is about 0.0049 + 0.0004 inch and the center panel thickness is about 0.0135 inch.    21. the container of claim 19 or 20, wherein the nose diameter of the bottom thereof is about 2.150 inches.    21. the container of claim 19, 20 or 21, including a body diameter of about 2.600 inches.    23. the container of claim 19, 20, 21 or 22, wherein the radius of curvature of the downwardly concaved center panel is about 2.350 inches.    24. a lightweight steel container capable of withstanding a substantial internal pressure without eversion comprising a unitary structure having a seamless cylindrical side wall and a bottom wall integrally formed with said side wall at the lower extremity thereof, the ratio of the thickness of said bottom wall to the thickness of said side wall   being-about    3.2 or less, said bottom wall comprising a tapering surface extending downwardly from said side wall, said tapering surface forming a taper angle of about 1.50 and a wall taper thickness of  about 0.007 inch in excess of said side wall, an outer frustoconical surface extending downwardly and inwardly from said side wall toward the axis of said container, said outer frustoconical surface forming a bottom angle of about 400 with respect to the axis of the container,  a bottom radius integrally connected with and extending downwardly from said outer frustoconical surface providing an annular supporting surface for the container, said annular supporting surface having a diameter of about 2.10 inches, an inner frustoconical surface integrally connected with said bottom radius and extending upwardly and inwardly from said annular supporting surface toward the axis of the container, said inner frustoconical surface forming an angle of about 160 with respect to the axis of the container, the height of said inner frustoconical surface being less than half the height of said outer frustoconical surface, and a downwardly concaved center panel integrally connected with said inner frustoconical surface and extending upwardly and inwardly from said inner frustoconical surface to the axis of said container,   the radius of curvature of said downwardly concaved center panel being greater than the diameter of the annular   supporting    surface, said   enter    panel extending at its uppermost portion slightly above said height of said frustoconical surface.      25. the container of claim 24, wherein said side wall of said container is about 0.0038 + 0.0004 inch and the center panel thickness is about 0.0110 inch.    26. the container of claim 24 or 25, wherein the nose diameter of the bottom thereof is about 2.150 inches.    27. the container of claim 24, 25 or 26, wherein the body diameter is about 2.600 inches.    28. the container of claim 24, 25, 26 or 27, wherein the radius of curvature of the downwardly concaved center panel is about 2.900 inches.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
