<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0006588
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800109
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
E02F-3/40 B66F-9/19 E02F-3/407 B66F-9/12 A01D-87/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
improvements in or relating to a buckrake.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
bamlett ltd a c gb<sep>a.c. bamlett limited<sep>a.c. bamlett limitedstation roadthirsk, north yorkshire yo7 1qagb<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
knight william horacegb<sep>knight, william horace<sep>knight, william horacemill lane barn great thirklebythirsk north yorkshiregb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a buckrake comprises a support having a plurality of tines  (3) extending therefrom to support silage or like materials, the  support being provided with connecting means (1) whereby the  buckrake may be attached to a tractor.  a push-off gate (4) is  provided which may be moved transverse to the tines (3) to push  material supported by the tines (3) off as and when desired.  this  push-off gate (4) is moved by means of a generally horizontally  disposed hydraulically actuated scissor action push mechanism  (5).  the scissor action push mechanism (5) is disposed between  the tractor connecting means (1) and the gate (4) and at no time  during the movement of the gate (4) does any part of the push  mechanism (5) protrude beyond the tractor connecting means  (1).  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
descrlf'rion of invention improvements in or relating to a bucerake this invention relates to a buckrake and more particularly to a push-off buckrake. buckrakes attached to tractors are commonly used for transporting silage and the like: presently proposed buckrakes generally comprise a series of horizontally extending tines arranged to support the silage or like material and in the case of push-off buckralces a gate is provided which is normally located in a retracted position at the rear of the tines. the push-off gate may, however, be actuated when desired to push off the material supported on the tines, the push-off gate then moving from the retracted position across the tines. in previously proposed types of push-off buckrakes provided with such gates, the mechanism for pushing the gate forward has been of a relatively complex design requiring numerous lever arms and springs. furthermore, in order to retract. the gate to a suitable position to allow full utilisation of the tines it has been necessary to mount the various parts of tho gate moving mechanism in such a way that dlen the gate is in its retracted position they protrude beyond the parts of the buckrake designed to end a standard three point tractor linkage. this is of course very inconvenielst. purthermore, it has been found with previously proposed buckrakes that the load is located a considerable distance from the tractor, and thus there is a tendency for the tractor to tip if large loads are carried. another problem encountered with prior proposed pll518- off buckrakes having a rearwardly protrudi.i# gate n:echi;wlism is the tendency for parts of the mechanism to foul or sing on, for example, the tractor cab or mud guards, or in the case in which a hydraulic actuating device is used for the gate mechanism, the hydraulic fluid hoses. this invention seeks to provide an improved push off buckrake in which the above described disadvantages of prior buckrakes are reduced or obviated. according to this invention there is provided a push-off buckrake comprising a support portion which includes means for connecting the buckrake to a tractor or the like and support means having a plurality of tines, extending therefrom, gate means arranged for movement from a position adjacent said support portion towards the fee ends of the tines to push material supported by said tines of said buckrake, and a pushing mechanism for moving said gate means, said pushing mechanism comprising a pair of arms mounted for pivotal movement relative to one another, one end of each arm being provided with means co-operating with said support portion and the other end of each arm being provided with means co-operating with said gate means, and actuation means for moving said arms pivotally thereby to cause movement of said gate means towards or away from the free ends of the tines. preferably said pair of arms intersect and are pivotally connected substantially at their point of incer- section. advantageously said one end of one of said arms is provided with
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims: 1. a push-off buckrake comprising a support portion which includes means for connecting the buckrake to a tractor or the like and support means having a plurality of tines extending therefrom, gate means arranged for movement from a position adjacent said support portion towards the free ends of the tines   to-.#ush    material supported by said tines off said buckrake, and a pushing mechanism for moving said gate means, said pushing mechanism comprising a pair of arms mounted for pivotal movement relative to one another, one end of each arm being provided with means co-operating with said support portion and the other end of each arm being provided with means co-operating with said gate means, and actuation means for moving said arms pivotally thereby to cause movement of said gate means towards or away from the free ends of the tines.   2. a push-off buckrake according to claim 1 wherein said pair of arms intersect and are pivotally connected substantially at their point of intersection.       3¯ a push-off buckrake according to claim 1 or 2 wherein said one end of one of said arms is provided with    pivotal attachment means connected to said support portion and said one end of the other armis provided with slider means which locates in a channel provided on said support portion, the arrangement being such that on relative pivotal movement said arms said one end of said one arm merely pivots about said pivotal attachment means whilst said one end of the other arm moves towards or away from said one end of said one arm, said slider moving backwards and forwards along said channel     4.    a push-off buckrake according to claim 3 wherein the other end of the other arm is provided with pivoting means by means of which the arm is pivotally mounted to   the.gate    means,  and the other end of said one arm is provided with slider means which locate in a channel arrangement provided on said gate means.   3. a push-off buckrake according to claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein said actuation means comprises a hydraulic cylinder and piston.   6. a push-off buckrake according to claim 5 wherein said one end of each arm is provided with a shoulder portion, said hydraulic cylinder being pivotally mounted to one shoulder portion   and. the    piston being pivotally mounted to'the other shoulder portion.    7. a push-off buckrake according to any one of the preceding claims wherein said arms are formed from elongate box sectioned girders.   8. a push-off.buckrake according to any one of the preceding claims wherein said gate means is provided   alonc    its lower edge with rollers or the like adapted to   rur.      along said tines.   9. a push-off buckrake according to any of the preceding   claims wherein    the support mcans supporting said tines comprises a box sectioned girder provided with a series of equally spaced mounting apertures adapted to receive end portions of the tines.     10. a push-off buckrake substantially as herein described with reference to and as shown in the accompanying drawings.   11. any novel feature or combination of features described herein.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
