<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0007759
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800206
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
G01N-33/26 G01N-33/28 G01N-23/222 G01N-23/22 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
method of and apparatus for measuring the water content of crude oil.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
atomic energy authority ukgb <sep>united kingdom atomic energy authority<sep>united kingdom atomic energy authority 11 charles ii street london sw1y 4qp gb<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
clayton colin geoffreygb<sep>merrill howard nolangb<sep>clayton, colin geoffrey<sep>merrill, howard nolan<sep>clayton, colin geoffreysprole cottage, barrow roadshippon, abingdon oxfordshiregb<sep>merrill, howard nolan12 lowther roadmillom, cumbriagb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a method of measuring the water content of crude oil  comprising the operations of irradiating a sample of crude oil  in a fixed geometry with a known dose of neutrons measuring  the amount of γ-ray activity arising from the interaction of the  neutrons with either chlorine or oxygen present in the sample,  deriving the specific activity of the γ-rays from the sample,  and comparing the specific activity of the γ-rays from oxygen  or chlorine in the sample with that arising from a known  concentration of oxygen or chlorine in crude oil, and an  apparatus for carrying out the method.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
improvement in or relating to the measurement of the water content of crude oil. the present invention-relates to tlle incasur(lnell1; of the water content of crude oil. crude oil extracted frown wells such as those in the north sea may contain water at collcellirati.olls which vary from a fraction of one percent to several percent as royalties are calculated on the basis of the net amount of oil transferred to the mainland, it is desirable to be able to establish the water content of the oil to a considerable accuracy the methods of measuring water content which are employed at the moment are not entirely satisfactory. the settling tank method is slow and inaccurate and requires the installation of large equipment which may be impracticable. methods based on capacitance probes, although widely used are of doubtful accuracy in the long term due to the formation of deposits on the surfaces of the electrodes, sampling methods are slow and mechanically complex and give rise to errors if the water is not fully mixed so that unrepresentation samples are obtained. according to the present invention there is provided a method of measuring the water content of crude oil comprising the operations of irradiating a sample of crude oil in a fixed geometry with a known dose of neutron, measuring the amount of y-ray activity arising from the interaction of the neutrons with either chlorine or oxygen present in the sample, deriving the specific activity of they-rays from the sample, and comparing the specific activity of they-rays from oxygen or chlorine in the sample with that arising from a known concentration of oxygen or chlorine in crude oil. also according to the invention there is provided an apparatus for measuring tulle water content of crude oil, comprising means for irradiating a sample of crude oil in a faxed geometry with a known close of neutrons, meons for measuring the activity of y-rys arising from the ncll-trons interacting 'ith either oxygen or chlorine present in the sample, and meals whereby the specific activity of tic y-rays from the oxygen or chlorine in the sample can be compared with that arising from a known concentration of oxygen or chlorine in crude oil. the specific activities of known concentrations of oxygen or chlorine in crude oil are derived from calibration experiments. the y-rays arising from oxygen enable the water-content of the crude oil to be measured at all times, whereas the y-rays arising from chlorine can only be utilised if the water is saline, but in this case, it is the preferred way of carrying out the invention additionally prompt y-rays arising from inelastic scattering of neutrons by úêc (4.43 mev) and from neutron capture by h (2.293 ev) occur, and, if desired these can be used to measure h:c:o ratios. also, other elemental concentrations, such as the sulphur content, can be measured using y-rays arising from neutron capture, and these provide valuable information about the composition of crude oil. in one embodiment of the invention
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims   1. a method of   measuring    the   lfatcr    content of crude oil comprising tie operations of irradiating a sample of crude oil in a fixed geometry   with    a   known    dose of neutrons, measuring the amount of y-ray activity arising from the interaction of the neutrons with   either    chlorine or oxygen present in the sample, deriving the specific activity of the y-rays from the sample, and comparing the specific activity of the y-rays from oxygen or chlorine in the sample with that arising from a   knorn    concentration of oxygen or chlorine in crude oil, 2. a method according to claim 1 wherein the y-rays   which    are measured are those which arise promptly from the capture of thermal neutrons by nuclei of 35cl present in any water present in the crude oil, and there is included the further operation of determining the salivity of the   water.      3. a method according to claim   1      wherein    the   y-rays which    are measured result promptly from the inelastic scattering of neutrons by the oxygen nuclei in any   water      which    is present in the crude oil.   4. a method according to claim 1 in   which    the y-rays   which    are measured are delayed and result from the radioactive decay of nuclei of   n      which    are produced by high energy neutrons interacting   with    the nuclei of    160 from any water which is    present in the crude oil.      5.    a method according to claim 3 or claim 4 wherein there is included the operations of measuring the specific activities of prompt y-rays resulting from inelastic scattering of neutrons  12 by c nuclei present in the crude oil and from neutron capture by   ii    present in the crude oil, thereby to determine the ratios of hydrogen to carbon to oxygen in the crude oil.     6.   x      apparatus    for   measuring    the water content of crude oil, comprising means for   irradiating    a sample of crude oil in a fixed geometry with a   linolfn    dose of   neutrons, means    for measuring the   activity    of y-rays arising from the neutrons   interaclin > lçitll cither    oxygen or chlorine present in the sample, and means whereby the specific activity of the y-rays from the oxygen or chlorine in the   sample    can be compared with that arising   from    a   known    concentration of oxygen or chlorine in crude   oil.      7. an apparatus according to claim 6 wherein there is included means for agitating the crude oil prior to irradiation so as to ensure that any   water    present in the crude oil is distributed uniformly throughout the crude oil.   8, apparatus according to claim 6 or claim 7 wherein the means for measuring the specific y-ray activity comprises means for producing light pulses in response to y-rays arising from nuclear interaction with the oil, means for producing electrical pulses related to said light pulses, a pulse height analyser arranged to produce output signals corresponding to y-ray counts arising from oxygen or chlorine nuclei within the crude oil, means for producing a signal related to the quantity of crude oil which has been irradiated with neutrons, a data processor to which the signals corresponding to the said y-ray counts and the quantity of crude oil   which    has been irradiated are applied and which is arranged to derive the specific activity of the y-rays arising from oxygen or chlorine nuclei in the crude oil, 9. apparatus according to claim 8 wherein the data processor is arranged to compare the derived specific activities of oxygen or chlorine with the specific activities of   no'run    concentrations of pure or saline   water    in crude oil and provide a direct indication of the concentration of water in the crude oil.        10.      at ratus      accordion    to   claim    8   or      claim    9   wherein      '.he    pulse   tic    analyser is   arranged    to produce further   output      eign?.'s    related to y-ray counts arising from nuclei of carbon and hydrogen in the crude oil,   .and    the   data      processor    is arranged to derive the ratios of carbon to hydrogen to   oxygen    in the crude oil.   11. apparatus according to claim 7   wherein      there    is   provided    a mixing chamber having a housing in an end   lçall    in which there may be inserted a   measuring    module consisting of a neutron source and a y-ray detector assembly arranged in a back-scatter geometry, a baffle system arranged to cause crude oil passing through the   mixing    chamber to pass over the surface of the housing thereby to enable the crude oil to   b    irradiated   with    neutrons, means for connecting the mixing chamber into a pipeline through   lçhich    the crude oil the water.   content of which is to be measured can be caused to   flow,    and a plurality of pumps arranged to draw crude oil from the pipeline and inject it into the mixing chamber in a turbulent fashion thereby to ensure homogeneity in the crude oil passing through the mixing chamber, 12. apparatus according to claim 7   wherein    there is included a mixing device consisting of an inlet pipe and an outlet pipe which are adapted to be connected into a pipeline through which crude oil the water content of   which    is to be measured can be caused to flow, a plurality of subsidiary pipes of equal crosssection   which    are fed by the inlet pipe and which in turn feed into the outlet pipe, each of the subsidiary pipes containing a system of baffles arranged to cause turbulence in crude oil   flowing    through the subsidiary pipes,    the subsidiary pipes being   synnmetrically    disposed about a measuring module consisting of a neutron source and a y-ray detector assembly arranged in a back-scatter geometry   with    the neutron source positioned in the region of the confluence of the subsidiary pipes and the outlet pipes.  13. a method of measuring the water content of crude oil substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to the accompanying drawings.   14. an apparatus for measuring the water content of crude oil substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to any of figures 1 to 8 of the accompanying   drawings.     
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
