<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0017364
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19801015
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
C08F-218/00 D21H-17/00 D06M-15/21 D06M-15/327 C08F-218/12 D04H-1/64 D21H-17/36 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
radiation-curable allyl benzoylbenzoate copolymers, their use, products thereof, and methods of making these products.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
rohm & haas us<sep>rohm and haas company  <sep>rohm and haas companyindependence mall westphiladelphia pennsylvania 19105us<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
winey donald alfredus<sep>winey, donald alfred<sep>winey, donald alfred358 rettop placewarminster pennsylvania, 18974us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
radiation-curable copolymers containing from 0. 1 to  10% by weight of ally benzoylbenzoate units are disclosed  which crosslink on exposure to actinic radiation such as  ultraviolet light.  the copolymers are used in various coating  or impregnating compositions, such as for non-woven fabric  products, paper and textiles products or in the formulation of  adhesives, caulks and sealants.  methods of preparing these  compositions and products are disclosed in which allyl  benzoylbenzoate polymer is cured by exposure to actinic  radiation.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
radiation-curable allyl benzoylbenzoate copolymers, compo sitions and products thereof, and methods of making them this invention is concerned with certain radiationcurable allyl benzoylbenzoate copolymers, their use in the preparation of paper, non-woven and textile products and adhesives, caulks and sealants and in coating and/or impregnating compositions. the invention also embraces methods of preparing such products and compositions. polymers of monoethylenically unsaturated vinyl monomers have many uses because of their outstanding physical properties and their adaptability to economical manufacture. however, they have disadvantages which tend to limit their usefulness, such as susceptibility to action qf solvents, lack of resistance to gasoline, oil, and grease, excessive flexibility and lack of resilience, and loss of dimensional stability and strength at relatively low temperature. various crosslinking techniques have been resorted to in trying to overcome the disadvantages mentioned that are associated with the conventional linear, two-dimensional form. such techniques have generally not been completely practical because they sometimes necessitate the use of harsh reaction conditions and often result in degradation of the polymer and serious susceptibility thereof to heat, particularly instability thereof to heat. the use of extraneous photosensitizers blended with the polymers is often accompanied by problems of compatibility, uniformity of distribution, volatility, toxicity or exudation and migration of the additive, often resulting in premature and/or erratic crosslinking. it has been suggested in u.s. patents nos. 3,214,492, 3,429,852 and 3,574,617 to provide certain acetophenone or benzophenone derivatives having acryloxy or methacryloxy groups so that such compounds can be copolymerized with ethylene or with other vinyl monomers to provide copolymers that can be cured (i.e crosslinked) after shaping by exposure to radiation. in general, however, these monomeric compounds are relatively expensive to manufacture. u.s. patent no. 2,461,301 discloses allyl o-benzoylbenzoate, homopolymers thereof, and copolymers containing relatively large proportions, such as over 30%, thereof. however, there is no suggestion in the patent of copolymerizing a small amount of allyl benzoylbenzoate, from 0.1 to 10% by weight, with at least one other ethylenically unsaturated monomer to provide copolymers that are curable to a crosslinked condition upon exposure to radiation. u.s. patents 3,926,640 and 3,926,641, disclose photopolymerizable compositions comprising the reaction product of (l) a hydroxy-containing ester of an unsaturated acid and a polyol, such as ethylene glycol monomethacrylate or trimethylolpropane diacrylate with (2) a mono- or di-carboxyl benzophenone, such as benzoylbenzoic acid. belgian patent no. 866,657 discloses monoethylenically unsaturated derivatives of vinylbenzyl-substituted benzophenones or acetophenones, and homopolymers and copolymers thereof that can be cured (i.e. crosslinked) by exposure to radiation. in accordance with the present invention, it has unexpectedly and surprisingly been discovered that copolymers containing small amounts, i.e. about 0.1 to 10% by weight, of allyl o-, m-, or p-benzoylbenzoate or benzoyl ring-substituted derivatives of allyl o-, m-, and p-benzoylbenzoate, preferably allyl o-benzoylbenzoate or benzoyl ring-substituted derivatives thereof, e.g. with a wide variety of conventional ethylenically unsaturated vinyl or vinylidene monomers, can be readily cured (i.e. crosslinked) by exposure to radiation. such copolymers per se or compositions containing them are particularly useful as adhesives, binders,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:   1. a copolymer comprising (1) from 0.1 to   10%    by weight of units of at least one monomer of the formula: emi30.1        wherein r is h,   c1-c9    alkyl, c1-c9 alkoxy,  isobornyl,   c1    or br, and (2) units of at least one different monoethylenically unsaturated monomer.   2. a copolymer as claimed in claim 1 wherein (1) comprises at least one monomer of the formula: emi30.2        wherein r is as defined in claim 1.   3. a copolymer as claimed in claim 1 or 2 wherein r is h or   c1-c4    alkyl.   4. a copolymer as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3 which comprises from   0.1    to 5% by weight of units of   monomer(l).        5. a copolymer as claimed in any of claims 1 to 4 wherein monomer (2) comprises one or more of: styrene; alpha-methyl styrene; vinyl toluene; at least one ester of acrylic and/or methacrylic acid with at least one aliphatic alcohol; acrylic acid; methacrylic acid; itaconic acid; isoprene; acrylamide; methacrylamide; acrylonitrile; methacrylonitrile; butadiene; vinyl propionate; dibutyl   fumarate;    dibutyl maleate; diallyl phthalate, vinylidene chloride; vinyl chloride; vinyl fluoride; vinyl acetate; ethylene and propylene.   6. a copolymer as claimed in claim 5 wherein monomer  (2) comprises one or more of: at least one   c1-c8    alkyl acrylate; acrylic acid; methacrylic acid; acrylonitrile; methacrylonitrile; acrylamide; methacrylamide; styrene and vinyl toluene.   7. a copolymer as claimed in any of claims 1 to 6 which is substantially uncrosslinked.   8. a copolymer as claimed in any of claims 1 to 6 when at least partially crosslinked.      9.    a film of copolymer as claimed in any of claims 1 to 8.   10. a film as claimed in claim 9 of a linear,   essential    uncrosslinked addition copolymer comprising from 0.1% to 10% by weight of an allyl benzoylbenzoate monomer, represented by the formula: emi31.1        wherein r is a member selected from the group consisting of h,   c1-c9    alkyl,   c1-c9    alkoxy, c1, and br groups, and at least one other monoethylenically unsaturated monomer having a group of the formula h2c=c   ci    wherein the film is carried on or in a substrate adapted to be cured to a crosslinked condition on exposure to ultraviolet radiation.   11. a crosslinked film carried on or in a substrate and obtained by radiation-curing a film according to claim 9 or 10.   12. a method of producing a polymeric film on a substrate which comprises applying a   composition.comprising    a solution or dispersion of linear, essentially uncrosslinked, addition copolymer of claim 7 to the substrate, at least partially drying the composition or allowing it to at least partially dry, to form a film and subsequently and/or concurrently with the drying, subjecting the film to actinic radiation to at least partially crosslink the polymer in the film.   13. use of a copolymer as claimed in any of claims 1 to 7 in the preparation of a paper product, non-woven fibrous product, textile product, foam product, caulk, sealant or adhesive.   14. a process for preparing a non-woven fibrous product which comprises treating at least a part of a non-woven web with a copolymer as claimed in any of claims 1 to 7 and at least partially curing the copolymer by exposure to actinic radiation.   15. a process as claimed in claim   14for    the preparation of diaper covercloth which comprises impregnating the non-woven web with the copolymer and curing some of the copolymer by exposing at least one area of web to actinic  radiation to a different extent from at least one other area of the web so that at least one area of the web is more resistant to disintegration in aqueous or organic media than another area of the web.   16. a process as claimed in claim 15 which comprises impregnating the web with from 1 to 20%, by weight of the copolymer, based on the weight of dry fibers, masking the web except the crotch area from actinic radiation and curing the polymer in that area by exposure to the radiation, 17. a process for preparing paper having improved wet-strength which comprises impregnating the paper with at least 1% by weight of dry fiber weight of copolymer as claimed in any of claims 1 to 7, and curing the polymer by exposure to actinic radiation.   18. a process for preparing a pressure sensitive adhesive which comprises blending:  from 1 to 95 parts by weight of copolymer as claimed in any of claims 1 to 7;  from 0.1 to 5 parts by weight of photoinitiator;  from 0.1 to 10 parts by weight of   polyethylenically    unsaturated monomer;  from 0.1 to 10 parts by weight of other polymer; and  the balance to make 100 parts by weight of monoethylenically unsaturated monomer;  and curing the blend by exposure to actinic radiation.   19. a process for preparing a sealant or caulk which comprises blending:  from 10 to 90 parts by weight of copolymer as claimed in any of claims 1 to 7;  from 10 to 90 parts by weight of inert particulate filler;    from 1 to 10 parts by weight of pigment; and  from 0.1 to 2 parts by weight of a drier,  applying the resultant blend to an exterior surface and curing the blend by exposure to ambient actinic radiation.    20. a process of producing a foamed coating which comprises blending:  from 10 to 95 parts by weight of copolymer as claimed in any of claims 1 to 7;  from 5 -to 90 parts by weight of inert particulate filler;  from 1 to 5 parts by weight of emulsifier; and  from 1 to 5 parts by weight of stabilizer,  foaming the blend, applying the foam to a substrate, drying the foam, or allowing it to dry and concurrently with and/or subsequent to the drying step curing the foam by exposing it to actinic radiation.   21. a process as claimed in any of claims 14 to 20 wherein the actinic radiation is ultraviolet radiation.   22. a non-woven fibrous product, paper or textile product impregnated and/or coated with copolymer as claimed in any of claims 1 to 8.   23. an adhesive, caulk or sealant comprising copolymer as claimed in any of claims 1 to 8.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
