<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0009937
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800416
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
C09J-167/00 C09D-5/34 C09J-3/16 C08L-77/00 C08L-67/02 C09J-177/00 C09J-177/12 C08L-77/12 <main>C09J-5/06</main> 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
block copolymer hot melt adhesive compositions, a method of filling a cavity therewith, and a substrate with a cavity filled with such a composition.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
monsanto co us  <sep>monsanto company<sep>monsanto company800 north lindbergh boulevardst. louis missouri 63167us<sep>monsanto company<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
donermeyer donald david<sep>martins joseph galvam<sep>donermeyer, donald david<sep>martins, joseph galvam<sep>donermeyer, donald david67 moss roadspringfield, massachusetts01119us<sep>martins, joseph galvam139, bridle path circleludlow massachusetts 01056us<sep>donermeyer, donald david<sep>martins, joseph galvam<sep>donermeyer, donald david67 moss roadspringfield, massachusetts01119us<sep>martins, joseph galvam139, bridle path circleludlow massachusetts 01056us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
hot melt adhesive compositions comprising a block  copolymer, aluminum powder and glass fiber.  the block  copolymer is selected from the group consisting of copolyes­ ters, copolyamides, copoly(esteramides) and copoly(ether-­ esters) melting at a temperature above about 150°c.  and hav­ ing from about 30 to about 70 weight percent of hard seg­ ments and from about 70 to about 30 weight percent of soft  segments.  the weight ratio of block copolymer to aluminum  powder and glass fiber is in the range of about 3:7 to about  3:2, the weight ratio of block copolymer to glass fiber is at  least about 2:1, and the weight ratio of glass fiber to  aluminum powder is at least about 1:9.  the compositions are  particularly useful for filling voids and cavities in substrates.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
- block copolymer hot melt adhesive compositions, a method of filling a cavity therewith, and a substrate with a cavity filled with such a composition the present invention relates to a hot melt adhesive composition, to a method of filling voids with the adhesive composition and to articles filled or coated with the hot melt adhesive composition. more particularly, it refers to block copolymers containing glass fibers and a. finely divided metal powder, to a method of filling voids with such compositions and to articles, filled or coated with the compositions. hot melt adhesives are well known in the prior art. these materials are conveniently applied to a substrate in the molten state and upon cooling form an adhesive bond. however. a deficiency common to most of the hot melt adhesives of the prior art is their tendency to soften and flow at elevated temperatures, as, for example, 70 to 1000c. with a resulting loss of bond strength. ccnsequenly, these materials are not suitable for use over abroad temperature range. attempts to upgrade the softening and flow temperatures have involved using very high molecular weight resinous materials and/or crosslinking of the resin. these methods have resulted in materials with higher softening points and flow temperatures. however, in most cases the resulting material was not adapted to thermal processing because its higher molecular weight and/or crosslinked structure engender extremely high application viscosity. thus, these materials were not suitable for use as hot melt adhesives. in the manufacture and repair of metal bodies such as automobiles and appliances, solder compositions containing lead are frequently used to fill cavities and voids. these lead solders are extremely dense and can add a significant increment to the weight of the metal body. they present a health hazard which mandates special handling to protect workers engaged in the soldering and cavity filling operations. curable adhesives such as epoxies are generally unsatisfactory for such cavity and void filling applications because they require careful metering of the components to provide good physical properties and bond strength, because they take too long to cure to a sandable state and because they have rather poor weather resistance. conventional hot melt adhesives are also unsatisfactory for cavity and void filling applications because they cannot be sanded rapidly at assembly line speed, they do not readily accept paint, exhibiting "bleed-through", and they do not withstand the high temperatures necessary for the subsequent cure of paint overcoats. "bleed-through" or "telegraphing" is the term used to describe the revelation of difference in composition of the substrate when it has been painted, caused by a difference in reflectivity between the painted metal and the painted adhesive composition. u.s. patent 3,650,999 discloses block copolymer comprising hard polyester segments and soft polyamide segments having improved adhesion and high temperature performance obtained by reacting a crystalline polyester, a c18 to c54 polycarboxylic acid and a primary diamine. - this poly (ester-amide) in common with other hot melt adhesives has deficiencies in creep resistance at temperatures above 1500c. in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
what is claimed is:    1. an adhesive composition comprising a block copolymer, aluminum powder, and glass fiber; characterized wherein said block copolymer is copolyesters, copolyamides, copoly(esteramides) and copoly(etheresters) melting at a temperature of above 1500c., having from 30 to 70 weight percent of hard segments and from 70 to 30 weight percent of soft segments; the weight ratio of block copolymer to aluminum powder and glass fiber being in the range of 3:7 to 3:2, the weight ratio of block copolymer to glass fibert is at least 2:1 and the weight ratio of glass fiber to aluminum powder is at least 1:9.    2. an adhesive composition of claim 1 characterized wherein said hard segments of said block copolymer are polyester condensates of an aliphatic or alicyclic diol having from 2 to 10 carbon atoms and an alicyclic or aromatic dicarboxylic acid having from 8 to 20 carbon atoms, polyamide condensates of an aliphatic or alicyclic diamine having from 2 to 12 carbon atoms and an aliphatic or alicyclic dicarboxylic acid having from 2 to 12 carbon atoms, or polyamide condensates of a   (    -amino-carboxylic acid having from 2 to 12 carbon atoms;  said soft segments of said block copolymer are polyester condensates of an aliphatic or alicyclic diol having from 4 to 10 carbon atoms or a polylactone diol of molecular weight in the range of 350 to 6000 and an aliphatic, alicyclic or aromatic dicarboxylic acid having from 4 to 54 carbon atoms, poly(etherester) condensates of a poly(alkylene ether) glycol of molecular weight in the range of 350 to 6000 in which the alkylene groups have from 2 to 10 carbon atoms and an aliphatic, alicyclic or aromatic dicarboxylic acid having from 4 to 54 carbon atoms, or polyamide condensates of an aliphatic or alicyclic diamine having from 2 to 12 carbon atoms and a mixture of an aliphatic or alicyclic dicarboxylic acid having from 4 to 54 carbon atoms containing at least 40 weight percent of an aliphatic dicarboxylic acid having from 18 to 54 carbon atoms.      3. an adhesive composition of claim 1 characterized wherein said block copolymer is a copolyester, said hard seginnts being condensed from an aliphatic or alicyclic diol having from 2 to 10 carbon atoms and an alicyclic or aromatic dicarboxylic acid having from 8 to 20 carbon atoms, said soft segments being condensed from an aliphatic or alicyclic diol having from 4 to 10 carbon atoms or a polylactone diol of molecular weight in the range of about 350 to 6000 or a poly(alkylene ether) glycol of molecular weight in the range of about 350 to 6000 in which said alkylene groups have from 2 to 10 carbon aroms and an aliphatic, alicyclic or aromatic dicarboxylic acid having from 6 to 54 carbon atoms.    4. an adhesive composition of claim 1 characterized wherein said block copolymer is a copolyamide, the hard segments being condensed from an aliphatic or alicyclic diamine having from 2 to 12 carbon atoms and an aliphatic or alicyclic dicarboxylic acid having from 2 to 12 carbon atoms or from an   lu -amino-carboxylic    acid having from 2 to 12 carbon atoms, said soft segments being condensed from an aliphatic or alicyclic diamine having from 2 to 12 carbon atoms and a mixture of aliphatic and:alicyclic dicarboxylic acids having from 4 to   54    carbon atoms containing at least 40 weight percent of an aliphatic dicarboxylic acid having from 18 to 54 carbon atoms.    5. an adhesive composition of claim 1 characterized wherein said block copolymer is a copoly(ester-amide) said hard segments being condensed from an aliphatic or alicyclic diol having from 2 to 10 carbon atoms and an alicyclic or aromatic dicarboxylic acid having from 8 to 20 carbon atoms, said soft segments being condensed from an aliphatic or alicyclic diamine having from 2 to 12 carbon atoms and a mixture of aliphatic and alicyclic dicarboxylic acids having from 4 to 54 carbon atoms containing at least 40 weight   per-    cent of an aliphatic dicarboxylic acid having from 18 to 54 carbon atoms.      6. an adhesive composition of claim 1 characterized wherein said block copolymer is a copoly(ester-amide), said hard segments being condensed from an aliphatic or alicyclic diamine having from 2 to 12 carbon atoms and an aliphatic or alicyclic dicarboxylic acid having from 2 to 12 carbon atoms or from an   lc    -aminocarboxylic acid having from 2 to 12 carbon atoms, said soft segments being condensed from an aliphatic or alicyclic diol having from 4 to 10 carbon atoms or a poly(alkylene ether) glycol of molecule weight in the range of 350 to 6000 in which the alkylene groups have from 2 to 10 carbon atoms and an aliphatic, alicyclic or aromatic dicarboxylic acid having from 6 to 54 carbon atoms.    7. an adhesive composition of claim 5 characterized wherein said polyester is a poly(ethylene terephthalate), poly(tetramethylene terephthalate), co-poly(butylene terephthalate)-(ethylene-terephthalate), co-poly(ethylene   terephthalate) - (ethylene    isophthalate) or co-poly (ethylene terephthalate)-(propylene terephthalate), said polyamide segments being condensed from a c36 dimer acid and hexamethylene diamine.    8. an adhesive composition of claim 1 characterized in that the melt viscosity at 2500c. is less than about    -l 300,000 celitipoise at a shear rate of 4 sec.       9. adhesive compositions of claims 1, 5 or 6 characterized wherein said hard segment prior to incorporation in the block copolymer has a weight average molecular weight in the range of 400 to 16,000 and a melting point in the range of 1800 to 2700c.    10. an adhesive composition of claim 9 characterized wherein said block copolymer has a weight average molecular weight in the range of 5500 to 30,000 and a glass transition temperature in the range of about -30 to 400c.    11. an adhesive composition of claim 10 characterized wherein said aluminum powder is spheroidal and has an average particle size in the range of 0.2 to 150 microns.      12. an adhesive composition of claim   10    character ized wherein said glass fiber is milled glass fiber of average length at least o.smm.    13. a substrate characterized in that there is a cavity or substrate surface bonded with the composition of claim 1.    14. a method of filling a cavity in a substrate which comprises applying excess adhesive composition as a hot melt into the   cavity,spreadirg    the adhesive composition to fill the cavity, cooling the adhesive composition below its  to crystallization temperature and sanding the adhesive composition/ provide a surface even with the surrounding substrate, wherein the adhesive composition comprises a block copolymer, aluminum powder and glass fiber, wherein the block copolymer is selected from the group consisting of copolyesters, copolyamides, copoly(esteramides)and   copoly(ether-esters)    melting at a temperature of above about   150 c.,    having from about 30 to about 70 weight percent of hard segments and from about 70 to about 30 weight percent of soft segments;   wherein the weight ratio of block copolymer to aluminum powder and glass fiber is in the range of about 3:7 to about 3:2, wherein the weight ratio of block copolymer to glass fiber is at least about 2:1 and wherein the weight ratio of glass fiber to aluminum powder is at least about 1:9.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
