<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0015759
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800917
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
H01R-13/502 H01R-13/50 H01R-13/504 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
an improved electric connector assembly.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
british insulated callendersgb <sep>bicc limited <sep>bicc limited 21, bloomsbury streetlondon, wc1b 3qngb<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
barrett ernest leonard charlesgb<sep>gerrett philip ramsaygb<sep>barrett, ernest leonard charles<sep>gerrett, philip ramsay<sep>barrett, ernest leonard charles17 elmsbridgeold harlow essexgb<sep>gerrett, philip ramsay7 coles greenloughton essexgb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
an electric connector assembly is of the kind in which  electric contacts and associated terminals are mounted in a  preformed body (1) of electrically insulating material, the  conductors of a length of flexible insulated multi-conductor  cable are electrically connected to appropriate terminals of  the connector, and a moulded plug body of electrically  insulating material wholly or partially encapsulates the pre­ formed body and is permanently bonded to the insulating  covering of a part of the length of the cable, wherein the  preformed body (1) comprises, upstanding from its front  face (3), a wall (4) which surrounds at least the holes (2) and  recesses in the preformed body associated with the line and  neutral electric contacts and which has a gap or aperture (5)  therethrough for entry of the cable conductors; and wherein  the space bounded by said wall (4) is closed by a preformed  cap (6) of electrically insulating material to form an enclo­ sure housing at least the line and neutral terminals.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
an improved 7irctric connector assembly this invention relates to an electric connector assembly of the kind in which the electric contacts and associated conductor terminals are mounted in a preformed body of electrically insulating material, the conductors of a length of flexible insulated multi-conductor cable are electrically connected to appropriate terminals of the connector, and a moulded plug body of electrically insulating material wholly or partially encapsulates the preformed body and is permanently bonded to the insulating covering of a part of the length of cable. electric connector assemblies of this kind will hereinafter, for convenience, be referred to as of the kind described. the invention is concerned bothwith electric connector assemblies of the kind described in which at least one of the electric contacts is a pin protruding from the rear face of the preformed body and in which at least one of the electric contacts is a socket within the preformed body. it has been found that, in manufacturing electric connector assemblies of the kind described, there is a risk that, during moulding of the connector body, a wire or wires of the exposed end of a cable conductor connected to one of the terminals will become detached from the terminal and will protrude through the moulded connector body. a connector assembly which is connected to a domestic electrical appliance and which has a live wire or wires protruding through the connector body is extremely dangerous especially if handled with damp hands - as may be the case when a plug assembly is connected to a domestic washing machine or a socket assembly for an electric kettle is connected to an electric socket outlet. it is an object of the present invention to provide an improved electric connector assembly of the kind described, in which assembly the aforesaid risk is eliminated or at least substantially reduced. according to the invention we provide an electric connector assembly of the kind in which the electric contacts and associated conductor terminals are mounted in a preformed body of electrically insulating material, the conductors of a length of flexible insulated multiconductor cable are electrically connected to appropriate terminals of the connector, and a moulded plug body of electrically insulating material wholly or partially encapsulates the preformed body and is permanently bonded to the insulating covering of a part of the length of the cable, wherein the preformed body comprises, upstanding from its front face, a wall which surrounds at least the holes and recesses in the preformed body associated with the line and neutral electric contacts and which has a gap or aperture therethrough for entry of the cable conductors; and wherein the space bounded by said wall is closed by a preformed cap of electrically insulating material to form an enclosure housing at least the line and neutral terminals. preferably, the wall upstanding from the front face of the preformed body surrounds the holes and recesses associated with all of the electric contacts, including, if present, any hole or recess for
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims   1. an electric connector assembly of the kind in which the electric contacts and associated conductor terminals are mounted in a preformed body of electrically insulating material, the conductors of a length of flexible insulated multi-conductor cable are electrically connected to apppropriate terminals of the connector, and a moulded plug body of electrically insulating material wholly   orpartialy    encapsulates the preformed body and is permanently bonded to the insulating covering of a part of the length of the cable, characterised in that the preformed body (1) comprises, upstanding from its front face (3), a wall (4) which surrounds at least the   hole    (2) and recesses in the preformed body (1) associated with the line and neutral electric contacts and which has a gap or aperture (5) therethrough for entry of the cable conductors;  and in that the space bounded by said wall (4) is closed by a preformed cap (6) of electrically insulating material to form an enclosure housing at least the line and neutral terminals.      2.    an assembly as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that the wall upstanding from the front face of the preformed body surrounds the holes and recesses associated with all the electric contacts, including, if present, any hole or recess accommodating a carrier of electric contacts for a cartridge fuse.   3. an assembly as claimed in claim 1 or 2, characterised  in that the preformed cap is of an electrically insulating material that is substantially harder than the moulded insulating material of the plug body.   4. an assembly as claimed in any one of the preceding claims characterised in that the preformed cap is a snap fit over or in the open end of the enclosure bounded by the upstanding wall.   5. an assembly as claimed in claim 4, characterised in that a side edge of the cap is hinged to the upper edge of a part of the upstanding wall by a web of insulating material integral with the wall and the cap.    6. an assembly as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3, characterised in that the preformed cap is in sliding engagement with the upstanding wall.   7. an assembly as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterised in that the moulded plug body comprises one layer.   8. an assembly as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 6, characterised in that the moulded plug body comprises two or more layers, the layers being bonded together.   9. an assembly as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, in which the electric contacts are pins, characterised in that the upstanding wall has a number of mutually spaced holes immediately adjacent the front face of the preformed body through which the insulating material of the moulded plug body has flowed into the enclosure to encapsulate the conductor terminals and inner ends of the pins.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
