<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0012895
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800709
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
F04D-29/46 F01D-17/00 F04D-27/02 <main>F04D-29/46</main> F01D-17/14 F04D-27/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
centrifugal vapor compressor and a diffuser control therefor.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
carrier corpus<sep>carrier corporation<sep>carrier corporationcarrier tower 6304 carrier parkway p.o. box 4800syracuse new york 13221us <sep>carrier corporation<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
bandukwalla phiroze  <sep>kirtland howard w<sep>mount gordon l<sep>bandukwalla, phiroze<sep>kirtland, howard w.<sep>mount, gordon l.<sep>bandukwalla, phiroze104 butterfield cirlenorth syracuse, new yorkus<sep>kirtland, howard w.7539 totman roadnorth syracuse, new yorkus<sep>mount, gordon l.rd 1 box a-120 gulf bridge roadwest monroe, new yorkus<sep>bandukwalla, phiroze  <sep>kirtland, howard w.<sep>mount, gordon l.<sep>bandukwalla, phiroze104 butterfield cirlenorth syracuse, new yorkus<sep>kirtland, howard w.7539 totman roadnorth syracuse, new yorkus<sep>mount, gordon l.rd 1 box a-120 gulf bridge roadwest monroe, new yorkus<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a diffuser control (26) for controlling vapor flow through  a diffuser passage (16) comprising an annular recess (28)  defined by a housing (12) of the diffuser passage (16) and in  communication therewith, and an annular control ring (30)  supported for movement within the recess (28) and the dif­ fuser passage (16) between a throttling position, wherein the  control ring (30) throttles vapor flow through the diffuser  passage (16), and an open position for permitting a substan­ tially free flow of vapor through the diffuser passage (16).   the diffuser control (26) further comprises a plurality of  springs (32) supported by the housing (12) for urging the  control ring (30) toward the throttling position, a stop (34) for  limiting movement of the control ring (30) at the throttling  position, a low pressure conduit (38) for connecting the  annular recess (28) to a low pressure source, and a steal (42,  44) for retarding vapor flow from a higher pressure side of  the control ring (30) to a lower pressure side thereof when  the control ring (30) is in the open position.  a valve (40) is  provided for regulating vapor flow through the low pressure  conduit (38) and includes a first position for maintaining a  low pressure in the annular recess (28) and a pressure differ­ ence across the control ring (30) for maintaining the control  ring (30) in the open posiiton, and a second position for  maintaining a high pressure in the annular recess (28)  wherein the springs (32) maintain the control ring (30) in the  throttling position.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
centrifugal vapor compressor and a diffuser control therefor this invention relates to centrifugal vapor compressors, and more particularly to a diffuser control for controlling vapor zlow through a diffuser passage f a centrifugal vapor compress; one of the major problems arising in the use of centrifugal v fo; compressors for applications where the compressor load varies oc a wide range is flow stabilization through the compressor. the compressor inlet, impeller and diffuser passages must be sized te provide for the maximum volumetric flow rate desired. when there is a low volumetric flow rate through such a compressor, the flow becomes unstable. as the vrlumetric flow rate is decreased from a stable range, a range of slightly unstable flow is centered. in this range, there appears ts be a partial reversal of flow in the diffuser passage, creating arises and lowering the compressor efficiency. below this range, the compressor enters what is known as surge, wherein there are periodic complete flow reversals in the diffuser passage, destroying the efficiency of the machine and endangering the integrity of the machine elements. since a wide rage of volumetric flow rates is desirable in many compressor applications, numerous modifications have been suggested to improve flow stability at low volumetric flow rates. eze ot lhe most accepted and successful modifications has been the addition of guide vanes in the inlet of the compressor to vary the 5low direction and quantity of entering vapor another widely known modification has been to vary diffuser configuration in response to the load on the compressor. commonly, this is done by means of a diffuser control xing which sow-es 7.- ctos-t 31- diffuser passage to throttle vapor flow therethrough. prior art variable diffuser control rings have been generally controlled by a mechanism arranged to locate and hold the control ring at any position between a full opened and a full closed position. such control mechan sms are typically relatively expensive, often involving fairly complex mechanical and/or pneumatic components. further,: because of the complex components, the manufacture and installation of diffuser ring control mechanisms are often difficult and time consuming tasks requiring expensive skilled manual labor. while continuously variable diffuser control rings often provide excellent results, it has been learned that very satisfactory results can be achieved with a diffuser control ring which has a limited number of discrete, spaced throttling positions. while obtaining these very satisfactory results, a discretely variable diffuser control, in accordance with the present invention, is, at the same time, much simpler than prior art diffuser controls. this simplicity facilitates and reduces the cost of construction, installation, and maintenance of the diffuser control and improves the reliability thereof. more specifically, these and other advantages are attained with a diffuser control for controlling vapor flow through a diffuser passage comprising an annular recess defined by a housing of the diffuser passage and in communication therewith, and diffuser restriction means supported for movement within the recess and the diffuser passage between a throttling position, wherein the restriction means throttles
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims   1. a diffuser control (26) for controlling vapor flow through a diffuser passage (16) comprising an annular recess (28) defined by a housing (12) of the diffuser passage (16) and in communication therewith; diffuser restriction means (30) supported for movement within the recess (28) and the diffuser passage (16) between a throttling position, wherein the restriction means throttles vapor flow through the diffuser passage, and an open position for permitting a substantially free flow of vapor through the diffuser passage; characterized by first urging means (32) supported by the housing (12) for urging the restriction means (30) toward the throttling position; first stop means (34) for limiting movement of the restriction means (30) at the throttling position; conduit means (37) for connecting the annular recess (28) to a low pressure source;  first sealing means (42, 44) for retarding vapor flow from a higher pressure side of the diffuser restriction means (30) to a lower pressure side thereof when the restriction means is in the open position; and valve means (39) for regulating vapor flow through the conduit means (37) and including a first position for maintaining a low pressure in the annular recess (28) and a first pressure difference across the diffuser restriction means (30) for maintaining the restriction means in the open position, and a second position for maintaining a high pressure in the annular recess wherein the first urging means (32) maintains the restriction means in the throttling position.   2. a centrifugal vapor compressor (10) comprising a housing (12) defining an inlet passage (14) and a diffuser passage (16); an impeller (18) rotatably mounted in the housing (12) between the inlet (14) and diffuser (16) thereof; an annular recess (28) defined by the housing (12) and in communication with the diffuser (16) thereof; diffuser restriction means (30) supported for movement within the annular recess (28) and the diffuser passage (16) between a throttling position, wherein the restriction means throttles vapor flow through the diffuser passage, and an open  position for permitting a substantially free flow of vapor through the diffuser passage; first urging means (32) supported by the housing   (l2)    for urging the restriction means (30) toward the throttling position;  first stop means (34) for limiting movement of the restriction means (30) at the throttling position; conduit means (37) for connecting the annular recess (28) to a low pressure source (14); first sealing means (42, 44) for retarding vapor flow from a higher pressure side of the diffuser restriction means (30) tp a lower pressure side thereof when the restriction means is in the open position;  and valve means (39) for regulating the vapor flow through the conduit means (37) including a first position for maintaining a low pressure in the annular recess (28) and a pressure difference across the diffuser restriction means (30) for maintaining the restriction means in   the¯open      positka7    and a second position for maintaining a high pressure in the annular recess wherein the first urging means (32) maintains the restriction means in the throttiing position.   3. the invention as defined by claims 1 or 2 further including second stop means (42) for limiting movement of the restriction means (30) at the open position.      4. the    invention as defined ty claim 3 wherein when the valve means (39) is in the first   position    the conduit means (37) is open; and when the valve means   t39)    is in the second position,   thk    conduit means (37) is closed   thereby    5. the invention as defined by claim 4 wherein the first sealino means (42, 44) includes the second stop means (42) and a surface (44) of the diffuser restriction means (30).   6. the invention as defined by claim 5 wherein the first and second stop means include, respectively, first (34) and second   s < )    surfaces of the housing.        @@    the   invention    as defined by claim   ,   wherein the first urging   means      includes    resilient means (32) positioned within the annular recess (28).   5.   he    invention as defined by claim 7   wherein    the   resilient      means      includes    a   plurality    of   springs    (32)    @. a    diffuser control (26) as defined by claim 1 further comprising second   urging    weans (50) supported by the housing (12j   tor      urging the    diffuser restriction means (30) toward an   intermediate    throttling position located between the open and full   t@@@@@@ing positions;  force limiting means (52) òr limiting the      force    exerted by the second urging means   (50)    on the diffuser    @@@@@@@ means (30) at the intermediate @@@e@@@ing position;    and   second    sealing means (54, 56) for retarding the vapor flow   -    the higher pressure side of the diffuser restriction means   io)    to the lower pressure side thereof when the restriction means is in the intermediate throttling position; and wherein the valve means   (a9)    further includes a third position for maintaining an intermediate pressure in the annular recess (28) and a second pressure difference across the diffuser restriction means (30) for maintaining the restriction means in the intermediate throttling position.   10. a centrifugal vapor compressor (10) as defined by claim 2 further comprising second urging means (50) supported by the housing (12) for urging the diffuser restriction means (30) toward an intermediate throttling position located between the open and full throttling positions; force limiting means (52) for limiting the force exerted by the second urging means (50j on the diffuser restriction means (30) at the intermediate throttling position; and second sealing means (54,   56)    for retarding vapor flow from the higher pressure side of the diffuser restriction means (30) to the lower pressure side thereof when the restriction means is in the intermediate throttling position;  and wherein the valve means   (39) further includes a third position for maintaining an intermediate pressure in the annular recess (28) and a second pressure difference across the diffuser restriction means   (30      fol    maintaining the restriction means in the intermediate throttling position.   11. the invention as defined by claims 9 or 10 wherein the conduit means includes a low pressure conduit (38) for connecting the annular recess (28) to the low pressure source; and an intermediate pressure conduit (58) for connecting the annular recess to an intermediate pressure source.   12. the invention as defined by claim 11 further including second stop means   (64) for    limiting movement of the restriction   meat    (48) at the open position.   13. the invention as defined by claim 12 wherein when the valve means (39) is in the first position, the intermediate pressure conduit (58) is closed thereby and the low pressure conduit (38) is open; when the valve means (39) is in the second position, the low (38) and intermediate pressure (58) conduits are closed thereby; and when the valve means (39) is in the third position, the low pressure conduit (38) is closed thereby and the intermediate pressure conduit (58) is open.    14. the invention as defined by claim 13 wherein the force limiting means (52) includes a movable   communicatíng    member   (54y    for transmitting force between the second urging means   (50)    and the diffuser restriction means (30) as the diffuser restriction means moves between the open and intermediate throttling positions;  and third stop means (56) for limiting movement f the communicating member (54) when the diffuser restriction means   (3f)    is at the intermediate throttling position wherein, as the diffuser restriction means moves between the intermediate throttling and full throttling positions1 the   commeuicatins      sembtr       (54) is spaced from the diffuser restriction means for preventing   force    from being transmitted between the second urging means   (52)    and the diffuser restriction means.   15. the invention as defined by claim 14 wherein the first sealing means includes the second stop means (64) and a surface (70) f   the diffuser    restriction means (30).   16. the invention as defined by claim 15 wherein the first urging means includes first resilient means (32) positioned within the annular recess (28); and the second urging means includes second resilient means   (50)    positioned within the annular recess (28).    17. the invention as defined by claim 16 wherein the communicating member includes a ring (54) slidably supported within the annular recess (28) between the second resilient means (50) and the diffuser restriction means (48); and the third stop means includes a ring (56) secured to the housing (12) and extending into the annular recess   (28),    18. the invention as defined by claim 17 wherein the first resilient means includes a plurality of first springs (32); and the second resilient means includes a plurality of second springs (50) adjacent to and interposed between first springs (32).   19. the invention as defined by claims 2 or 10 wherein the low pressure source is an inlet line to the compressor (10).  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
