<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0013038
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800709
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
F04D-1/12 F04D-1/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
a pump of the pitot type.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
kardoes max theodore<sep>kardoes, max theodore<sep>kardoes, max theodoreno.21, rietlandnl-4614 gc bergen op zoomnl<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
kardoes max theodore<sep>kardoes, max theodore<sep>kardoes, max theodoreno.21, rietlandnl-4614 gc bergen op zoomnl<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
the pump comprising a rotatably drivable pump housing  (5) having a concentric, cylinder-disc-shaped pump space (6)  in which opens out an inlet duct (7) for introducing a fluid and  near the circumferential wall of which is located the inlet port  of at least one fixed pitot member (11) communicating with an  outlet duct (9).  according to the invention the pitot member  (11) is formed by a non-circular disc arranged in the pump  space and having such a shape that together with the walls of  the pump space it bounds at least one semi-sickle-shaped  pump chamber (12) terminating in the direction of rotation of  the pump housing in a substantially radial wall (14) having at  least one outlet port (16).  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
"a pump of the pitot type" the invention relates to a pump of the pitot type comprising a rotatably drivable pump housing having a concentric, cylinder-disc-shaped pump space, in which an inlet duct for the introduction of fluid opens out and near the circumferential wall of which is located the outlet port of at least one fixed pitot member communicating with an outlet duct. such a pump is known from dutch patent application no. 7400950, laid open for public inspection. with this known pump the fluid to be pumped is driven by the rotation of the pump housing producing centrifugal force towards the circumferential wall of the pump chamber. near said wall the fluid moves with the rotation of the wall owing to viscous friction. the outlet port of the pitot member is directed against the flow of the fluid, hence against the rotation of the pump housing, as a result of which, as is known, the linear velocity of the fluid brings about an increase in pressure at the inlet port, the "pressure point". the known pump has the disadvantage that with the large amount of moving fluid in the pump space the radial pitot tube constitutes a comparatively large obstacle and hence a serious impediment for the desired laminar fluid flow. as a consequence, with the desired rapid rotation of the pump housing the fluid in the pump chamber exhibits a strong turbulence, which restricts the attainable increase in pressure, brings about loss of energy and may be the cause of irritating noise. the invention has for its object to obviate the aforesaid disadvantages and provides to this end a pump of the type referred to in the preamble, said pump being characterized in that the pitot member is a non-circular dis arranged in the pump space and having such a shape that together with the walls of the pump space it bounds at least one semi-sickle-shaped pump chamber terminating in the direction of rotation of the pump housing in a substantially radial wall having at least one outlet port. further features of the pump embodying the invention will now be described with reference to a drawing. the drawing shows in fig. 1 a plan view, partly broken away, of a pump in accordance with the invention, fig. 2 a cross-sectional view taken on the line ii-ii in fig. 1, and fig. 3 a cross-sectional view taken on the line 111-111 in fig. 1. in the drawing the direction of the fluid flow is indicated by an arrow, where this is necessary. the jacket 1 of the pump 2 is standing on a foot 3. inside the jacket 1 is accommodated a pump housing 5 rotatably drivable by a motor (not shown) through a driving shaft 4 and having a concentric, cylinder-discshaped pump space 6 in which opens out an inlet duct 7. the rotary axis 23 of the driving shaft 4 and the pump housing 5 is indicated by a dot-and-zash line. near the circumferential wall of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims    1. a pump of the pitot type comprising a rotatably drivable pump housing having a concentric, cylinder-disc-shaped pump space in which opens out an inlet duct for introducing a fluid and near the circumferential wall of which is located the inlet port of at least one fixed pitot member communicating with an outlet duct, characterized in that the pitot member is formed by a non-circular disc arranged in the pump space and having such a shape that together with the walls of the pump space it bounds at least one semisickle-shaped pump chamber terminating in the direction of rotation of the pump housing in a substantially radial wall having at least one outlet port.    2. a pump as claimed in claim 1 having a pump space, one of the head walls of which has one substantially radial slot, characterized in that the distance between said head wall and the pitot member is at the most equal to half the depth of said slot.      3. a pump as claimed in claim 2, characterized in that the distance between the other head wall of the pump space and the pitot member is at least twice the distance between the first-mentioned head wall of the pump space and the pitot member.    4. a pump as claimed in anyone of the preceding claims, characterized in that the pitot member comprises two plates arranged transversely of the rotary axis and separated from one another by a substantially cylinder-disc-shaped cavity.    5. a pump as claimed in anyone of the   preceding.claims,    characterized in that the inlet duct leading to the pump space is formed by a tube extending coaxially through the pitot member.    6. a pump as claimed in claim 5, characterized in that the wall of the pump space opposite the outlet end of the inlet duct has a coaxial depressed portion, the depth of which is at least equal to the depth of the slot and the diameter of which exceeds the outer diameter of the inlet duct, the or each slot joining said portion.    7. a pump as claimed in claim 6, characterized in that the distance between the bottom of the depressed portion and the exit of the inlet duct is equal to substantially one quarter of the inner diameter of the inlet duct.    8. a pump as claimed in claim 6 or 7, characterized in that the overall cross-sectional area of the slots at the location of their junctions with the depressed portion is substantially equal to the product of the inner circumference of the inlet duct and the distance between the bottom of the depressed portion and the exit of the inlet duct.     9. a pump as claimed in anyone of claims 5 to 8, characterized in that the outlet duct is formed by a tube arranged coaxially around the inlet duct.      10. a pump as claimed in anyone of the preceding claims, characterized in that the or each sickle-shaped pump chamber is completely open on its side facing the head wall on the inlet side of the pump space.    11. a pump as claimed in claim 9 or 10, characterized in that the inlet duct and the outlet duct are integral with the pitot member.    12. a pump as claimed in anyone of the preceding claims, characterized by at least two pitot members, the inlet port of at least one of which is spaced from the axis by a'radial distance differing from that of the other.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
