<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0009618
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800416
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
H03J-7/28 H04B-1/26 H03J-7/18 H03J-1/00 H03J-1/04 H03J-5/02 <main>H03J-1/04</main> H04B-1/16 H03J-5/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
circuit and method for controlling a channel display in a superheterodyne receiver.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
sanyo electric co jp<sep>tokyo sanyo electric cojp<sep>sanyo electric co., ltd.<sep>tottori sanyo electric co., ltd.<sep>sanyo electric co., ltd.18, keihanhondori 2-chomemoriguchi-shi, osakajp<sep>tottori sanyo electric co., ltd.201 yoshikata tottori-shitottori 680jp<sep>sanyo electric co., ltd.  <sep>tottori sanyo electric co., ltd.<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
sumi yasuaki<sep>sumi, yasuaki<sep>sumi, yasuaki127m mihagino 1-chometottori-shi tottori-kenjp<sep>sumi, yasuaki<sep>sumi, yasuaki127m mihagino 1-chometottori-shi tottori-kenjp<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a superheterodyne receiver employs as a local oscillator  a vco (125) included in a pll (115).  upon depression of a  station selecting switch (200), pulses are generated and  counted by a frequency division ratio setting counter.  the  count value thereof is loaded in the pll to be displayed as the  receiving frequency data and is also subjected to an arithme­ tic operation to evaluate a difference between the receiving  frequency and the frequency of the lowest channel.  the dif­ ference is divided by "3" and the quotient is displayed as the  channel number data.  the quotient is applied to a circuit, in  which the quotient is determined to detect the channel index.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
superheterodyne receiver the present invention relates to a superheterodyne receiver. more specifically, the present invention relates to a superheterodyne receiver employing as a local oscillator a voltage controlled oscillator included in a phase locked loop, adapted to indicate a channel number and a channel index of a receiving channel. recently an electronic tuning apparatus has been employed in place of mechanical tuning apparatus in a superheterodyne receiver. such an electronic tuner usually employs a voltage controlled oscillator as a local oscillator. a phase locked loop including a voltage controlled oscillator has also been developed and such a voltage controlled oscillator has also been employed as a local oscillator of a superheterodyne receiver. a digital frequency display has also been proposed which displays in a digital manner the frequency of a broadcasting station now in reception by the use of the digital data based on the data available in a phase locked loop. typically such a digital frequency indication is made by the use of the numerals of four digits. in spite of the fact that the frequency of a broadcasting station now in reception is displayed with accuracy by a digital frequency display, a problem is encountered by a user that it is often difficult for him to correctly memorize the frequencies of a large number of broadcasting stations. in order to avoid such difficulty, it has been proposed that in a given frequency band, such as an fm band, channel numbers are allotted to the respective broadcasting stations so that a desired broadcasting station can be identified by a corresponding channel number of a decreased number of digits. on the other hand, historically in europe a broadcasting standard was employed in the fm band until before 1962 in which 56 broadcasting frequencies were determined with the interval frequency of 300 khz between two adjacent broadcasting frequencies. however, thereafter the standard was revised to a new one in which 168 fm broadcasting frequencies were determined with the interval frequency of 100 khz between two adjacent broadcasting frequencies. particularly, the broadcasting frequencies allotted after 1962 were additionally allotted such that two additional broadcasting frequencies come in the vicinity of the broadcasting frequency allotted before 1962. therefore, one of the broadcasting frequencies allotted after 1962 is 100 khz lower than the broadcasting frequency allotted before 1962 and the other of the broadcasting frequency allotted after 1962 is 100 khz higher than the broadcasting frequency allotted before 1962. nevertheless, as far as the channel number indication is concerned, the broadcasting frequencies allotted after 1962 have been identified by the channel numbers associated with the channel allotted before 1962, but with an additional channel index. for example, the broadcasting frequency of 93.3 mhz is identified as channel no. 21 or channel no. 21 in the above described channel indication, wherein the notation "0" indicates that the broadcasting frequency of 93.3 mhz is a broadcasting frequency allotted before 1962. on the other hand, the frequency of 93.2 mhz is identified as channel no.21 , wherein
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 patent claims   1. a superheterodyne receiver including a voltage controlled local oscillator (125) and data setting means (300) for setting frequency data associated with a receiving frequency to be selected for controlling the generation of the control voltage for the local oscillator, characterzied in that arithmetic operating means (600) are provided for converting the frequency data set in said data setting means (300) into channel number data, and that channel number display means (400) are controlled by said arithmetic operating means (600).   2. a superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim 1, wherein one channel number has been allotted to identify a channel group including a plurality (m) of independent channels, characterized in that said arithmetic operation means comprises substraction means (601) for evaluating a difference between the data associated with the broadcasting frequency of the channel at an extremity of the frequency band and said receiving frequency associated data as set, and division means (605) for dividing said difference thus evaluated by said numerical value (m).   3. a superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim 2, characterized in that said numerical value (m) is "3".   4. a superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim 2, characterized in that the channel numbers have been allotted as a series of channels throughout a given frequency band, and  said channel at the extremity of said frequency band corresponds to the channel at the extremity of said allotted channels.   5. a superheterodyne reciever in accordance with claim 2, wherein the channel numbers have been allotted as a series of channel numbers throughout a given frequency band, characterized in that said superheterodyne receiver further comprises presetting means (609) for presetting a given specified number corresponding to the number of channels including   ozone    or more predetermined channels at the extremity of said frequency band which are rendered unreceivable as a result of control of said voltage controlled oscillating means responsive to said receiving frequency associated data, the channel at the extremity of said frequency band corresponds to the channel at the extremity of a series of channels as left receivable when said predetermined channels rendered unreceivable are excluded,  and said arithmetic operation means comprises addition/ subtraction means (607) for adding/subtracting said specified number as preset to the quotient obtained by division by means of said division means.   6. a   superheterodyne    receiver in accordance with claim 5, characterized in that said preset specified number is   t2.      7. a superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim 2, characterized in that said arithmetic operation means comprises means (611) for determining the numerical value of the quotient obtained by division by means of said division means for providing data associated with a channel index  representing any one of said plurality (m) of independent channels included in said one channel number, and channel index display means (401) responsive to the output of said channel index associated data providing means for displaying a corresponding channel index.   8. a superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim 1, characterized in that said voltage controlled oscillating means is included in a phase locked loop (115), said phase locked loop including programmable frequency dividing means (123), and said receiving frequency associated data is set as a frequency division ratio in said programmable frequency dividing means.   9. a method for controlling a channel display in a superheterodyne receiver including a voltage controlled local oscillator and data setting means for setting frequency data associated with a receiving frequency to be selected for controlling the generation of the control voltage for the local oscillator, characterized in that said method comprises the stops of making an arithmetic operation for converting the frequency data set in said data setting means into channel number data and displaying said channel number of the basis of said channel number data obtained by said arithmetic operation step.   10. a method for controlling a channel display in a superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim 9, wherein one channel number has been   allotted    to identify a channel group including a plurality (m) of   nndependent    channels, characterized in that said arithmetic operation step comprises the steps of evaluating a difference between the data associated with  the broadcasting frequency of the channel at an extremity of the frequency band and said receiving frequency associated data as set, and dividing said difference thus evaluated by said numerical value (m).   11. a method for controlling a channel display in a superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim 10, characterized in that numerical value (m) is "3".   12. a method for controlling a channel display in a superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim 10,   whereithe    channel numbers have been allotted as a series of channels throughout a given frequency band, characterized in that said channel at the extremity of said frequency band corresponding to the channel at the extremity of the allotted channel.   13. a method for controlling a channel display in a superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim 10, wherein the channel numbers have been allotted as a series of channel numbers throughout a given frequency band, characterized in that said method further comprises the step of presetting a given specified number corresponding to the number of channels including one ore more predetermined channels at the extremity of said frequency band which are rendered unreceivable as a result of control of said voltage controlled oscillating means responsive to said receiving frequency associated data, the channel at the extremity of said frequency band corresponding to the channel at the extremity of a series of channels as left receivable when said predetermined channels rendered unreceivable are excluded,  and said arithmetic operation step comprises the step of  adding/subtracting said specified number as preset to the quotient obtained by division by means of said division means.   14. a method for controlling a channel display in a superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim i3, characterized in that said preset specified number is   i2??.      15. a method for controlling a channel display in a superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim .10, characterized in that said arithmetic operation step comprises the step of determining the numerical value of the quotient obtained by division by means of said division means for providing data associated with a channel index representing any one of said plurality (m) of independent channels included in said one channel number, and said method further comprises the step of displaying a corresponding channel index responsive to said channel index associated data.    16. a method for controlling a channel display in a superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim 9, wherein said voltage controlled oscillating means is included in a phase locked loop, said phase locked loop including programmable frequency dividing means, characterized in that said method further comprises the step of setting said receiving frequency associated data as a frequency division ratio in said programmable frequency dividing means.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
