<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0014530
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800820
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
C12Q-1/00 C12N-11/00 <main>G01N-33/54</main> G01N-33/543 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
method for detecting and determining proteinaceous specific binding agents and materials bindable thereto, test composition and testkit therefor.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
unilever nvnl<sep>unilever plc gb <sep>unilever nv<sep>unilever plc<sep>unilever n.v.weena 4553013 al rotterdamnl<sep>unilever plcunilever house blackfriars p.o. box 68london ec4p 4bqgb<sep>unilever nv<sep>unilever plc  <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
davis paul james<sep>davis, paul james<sep>davis, paul james30 marriott's closefelmersham bedfordshiregb<sep>davis, paul james<sep>davis, paul james30 marriott's closefelmersham bedfordshiregb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a kit of test materials for carrying out detection or deter­ mination of an analyte which corresponds to one component  of an avid specific binding reaction between two reaction  components comprising a proteinaceous binding reagent and  its specific binding partner, said kit comprising a solid absor­ bent comprising one of said components and an enzyme-­ labelled one of said reaction components, characterised in  that the kit comprises the following four ingredients:   (a) lipid vesicles having releasably occluded therein an  aqueous preparation of an enzyme, said lipid vesicles having  fixed to their surfaces one of said reaction components;   (b) a solid support material having a surface to which one of  said components is fixed;   (c) a lytic agent for lysing said vesicles and releasing the  occluded enzyme therefrom; and   (d) a substrate for reacting with said enzyme to give a  detectable product.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
improvements in or relating to processes and materials for detecting and determining proteinaceous specific binding agents and materials bindable thereto this invention concerns improvements in or relating to processes and materials for detecting and determining proteinaceous specific binding agents and materials bindable thereto. the invention has particular application for example to the detection and determination of antibodies and their corresponding antigens or haptens, among other materials which take part in avid specific binding reactions. know analytical methods exist for detecting and determining antigens, haptens and antibodies of a wide variety of types, and other substances w-ni-ch take part in avid specific binding reactions, such as avidin (which binds biotin), thyroxin-binding globulin, and transcortin (which binds cortisol). among the large number of antigens, haptens and antibodies for which analytical methods have been devised are for example insulin and anti-insulin; human chorionic gonadotrophin and antibodies thereto; antibodies against disease-producing organisms such as toxoplasms as toxoplasma, entamoeba and treponema, and antigenic components of such organisms themselves; virus components such as hepatitis antigen and antibodies thereto; normal and abnormal tissue components, derivatives thereof and antibodies thereto, such as proteins including immunoglobulins themselves such as igg and igm, and degradation products thereof, such as fc fragments of igg, low molecular weight hormones, such as oestradiol; nutritional factors such as folate; and drugs such as opium alkaloids and cardiac steroids such as dioxin. among the known techniques for carrying out assay of such materials are radioimmunoassays, and immunoassays dependent on the detection of something other than a radioactive label, for example a fluorescent material, an electron spin label or an enzyme. us patents 3,654,090, 3,791,932, 3,839,153, 3,850,752 and 3,879,262 are representative of immunoassays dependent on the use of a covalent conjugate of an enzyme with one component of a pair of specific binding reaction components of interest in the assays in question. assays of this type have droved to be in many ways useful and convenient. however, there is a need for assay materials and systems with a potential for greater sensitivity, and which can be arranged into assay methods which are flexible and convenient in use according to this invention there are provided materials for the detection or determination of an analyte a7hich is a component of the reaction between proteinaceous binding agents and materials bindable thereto, in which one of the reaction components, i.e a binding agent or a material bindable thereto, is fixed or coupled to the surface of vesicles which contain a quantity of enzyme-containing aqueous material which is occluded from contact with the bulk of the suspending medium in the absence of lytic conditions, and in which one of the reaction components is immobilised on a solid carrier in a form which is able to accept the binding of a complementary reaction component when fixed or coupled to the vesicles. this latter immobilised component is ref erred to herein as an immunoadsorbent. the materials for the detection oaeter- mination of all analyte which is one of the reaction components, can conveniently
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims: 1. a kit of test materials for   carrying    out detection or determination of an analyte which corresponds to one component of an avid specific binding reaction between two reaction components comprising a protelnaceous binding reagent and its specific binding partner, said kit comprising a solid absorbent comprising one of said components and an enzyme-labelled one of said reaction components, characterised in that the kit. comprises the following four ingredients:  (a) lipid vesicles' having releasably occluded therein  an aqueous preparation of an enzyme, said lipid  vesicles having fixed to their surfaces one of said  reaction components;  (b) a solid support material having a surface to  which one of said components is fixed;  (c) a lytic agent for lysing said vesicles and  releasing the occluded enzyme therefrom;  and  (d) a substrate for reacting with said enzyme to  give a detectable product.   2. a kit of test materials according to claim 1, wherein said one reaction component is fixed to said vesicle surfaces through a spacer molecule or group selected from linkage   groups having    at least the length of a chain of 5   carton       > oms,and    protein molecules.      ,.    a kit of test materials according to claim 2;'   therein    said spacer molecule or group is selected from the residue of a dialdehyde   group    having at least 5 carbon atoms, the residue of   dimethyl    adipimidate, protein a of staphylococcus aureus, and antibody directed against   amphipathic      lipid     included in said vesicle.   4. a kit of test materials according to any one of claims 1-3, wherein said one reaction component is coupled to said solid surface through a spacer molecule or group selected from linkage groups having at least the length of a chain of 5 carbon atoms, and protein molecules.   5 a kit of test materials according to claim 4, wherein said spacer molecule or group is selected from the residue of a dialdehyde group having at least 5 carbon atoms, the residue of dimethyl adipimidate, protein a of   staphylococcus    aureus, and antibody directed against   amphipathic    lipid included in said vesicle.   6. a kit of test materials according to any one of claims 1-5, wherein said support material is a solid   polymeric    support material.   7.   h    kit of test materials according to   any    one of claims 1-6, wherein said solid support material is selected from tubes, wells granules and grains of solid polymeric support materials.   8, a kit of test materials according to any one of claims 1-7,   therein    said reaction components are selected from human   7-a      --toprotein,    human   chorionic    gonadotrophin, hepatitis antigen, immunoglobulins, and antibodies specific thereto.   9. a kit of test materials according to any one of claims 1-8, wherein said one reaction component fixed to said vesicles and said one component fixed to said solid support material are free of binding specificity for each other and each has a binding specificity for said analyte.   10. a kit of test materials according to any one of claims  1-8, wherein said one reaction component   fuzed      to    said vesicles and said one   component    fixed to said solid support have complementary binding specificity to each other.   11. a test complex for the detection or determination of an analyte selected from proteinaceous binding reagents and their specific binding partners, said complex comprising said analyte in combination with  (a) a reaction component selected from specific  binding partners and homologs of said analyte in  coupled form to a surface of a solid support material  and  (b) a reaction component selected from specific  binding partners and homologs of said analyte coupled  to the surface of lipid vesicles having an aqueous  preparation of an enzyme releasably occluded therein.   12. a composition for use in the detection or determination of an analyte selected from proteinaceous binding reagents and their specific binding partners, comprising lipid vesicles having an aqueous preparation of an enzyme releasably occluded therein, said vesicles having fixed to their surfaces a homolog or specific binding partner of said analyte through a spacer group or spacer molecule.   13. a composition according to claim 12, wherein the spacer group or spacer molecule is selected from the residue a dialidehyde group having at least 5 carbon atoms, the residue of dimethyl adipimidate, protein a of   staphvlococcus    aureus, and antibody directed against amphipathic lipid included in said vesicles.   14. a test method for the detection or determination of an analyte which corresponds to one component of an avid  binding reaction between two reaction components comprising a proteinaceous binding reagent and its specific binding partner, said method comprising reacting said analyte with assay materials including  (a) lipid vesicles having releasably occluded    therein-an    aqueous preparation of an enzyme, said  lipid vesicles having fixed to their surfaces one of  said reaction components; and  (b) a solid   support niaterial    having a surface to  which one of said components is fixed in amounts in which the quantity of (a) reacting with (b) is dependent on the quantity of analyte present; separating from said reaction a solid or liquid phase containing an amount of said (a) dependent on the quantity of analyte present;  treating said separated phase with a lytic agent to lyse said vesicles and release the occluded enzyme therefrom; and contacting said released enzyme with a substrate to provide a measurable product in dependence on the amount of said released enzyme.    15. a test method according to claim 14, wherein said one reaction component is fixed to said vesicle surfaces through a spacer molecule or group selected from linkage groups having at least the length of a chain of 5 carbon atoms, and protein molecules.   16. a test method according to claim 15, wherein said   stacr      molecule    or group is selected   from    the residue of   a dialdehyde    group having at least 5 carbon   ,atoms    the residue of dimethyl adipimidate, protein a of staphylococcus aureus, and antibody directed against   amphlpathic    lipid included in said vesicle.   17. a test method according to   anwr    one of   claims      1&num;16,         wherein    said one reaction component is   coipledtosaid      solid surface    through a spacer molecule or group selected from linkage groups having at least the length of a chain of 5 carbon atoms and protein molecules.   18. a test method according to   ,    one of claims   1-17 wherein    said one reaction component fixed to said vesicles and said one   component    fixed to said solid support material are free of binding specificity for each other and each has a binding specificity   for' said    analyte.   19. a test method according to any one of claims   14-17    wherein said one reaction component   fixed    to said vesicles and said one component fixed to said solid support have complementary binding specificity to each other.   20. a test method according to claim 14, substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to any one of the embodiments given in the foregoing description, preparations and examples.   21. a kit of test materials according to claim 1, substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to any one of the embodiments given in the foregoing description, preparations and examples.    22. a kit of test materials according to claim 1, wherein   - n place of the enzyme occluded in the vesicles and cf the    substrate giving rise to a detectable product, vesicles have occluded therein an easily detectable marker substance other than an enzyme, for example a   fluorochrome    or a radioisotope.   23. a test method according to claim 14, wherein in place  of the enzyme occluded in the vesicles and of the substrate giving rise to a detectable product, vesicles have occluded therein an easily detectable marker substance other than an enzyme, for example a fluorochrome or a radioisotope, and wherein after treatment of the separated phase with a lytic agent, in place of the contact with substrate the amount of marker substance released by the lytic agent is measured.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
