<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0005381
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19791114
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B29C-33/44 B29C-45/40 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
ejection device.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
hightons plastics ltdgb <sep>hightons plastics limited <sep>hightons plastics limited fircroft wayedenbridge kentgb<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
higton peter albertgb<sep>higton, peter albert<sep>higton, peter albertfircroft wayedenbridge kentgb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
the invention relates to an ejection device for use  with a moulding tool comprising an ejector plate (12) capable  of being mounted on a cavity plate (11) of the moulding  tool for movement towards and away from the cavity  plate (11) and carrying at least one ejection pin (20) which  when the ejector plate (12) is moved towards the cavity  plate (11) passes through an opening or plurality of openings  (32) in the cavity plate (11) to stand proud of the surface  thereof, wherein cam means (18, 28) provided on the  underside of the ejector plate (12) remote from the cavity  plate (11) are operable to cause said movement of the  ejector plate (12) towards the cavity plate (11).  preferably  the cam means comprise one or more rolling bearing  means (18) that co-operate with one or more wedge  shaped driving surfaces (28).  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
ejection device the present invention relates to moulding and in particular to ejection devices for use with moulding tools. ejection devices for use with moulding tools, especially in injection moulding apparatus normally comprised an injector plate mounted on a cavity plate of the moulding tool for movement towards and away from the cavity plate and carrying a nrher of ejection pins which when the ejector plate is moved towards the cavity plate passed through openings in the cavity plate to extend proud of the interior surface of the cavity plate so that the moulding within the cavity plate is pushed out by the pins in their passage through the openings. movement of the ejector plate towards the cavity plate is normally effected by a force applied to a rod or rods extending perpendicularly to the ejector plate. this means that a considerable space is required below the cavity plate of the moulding tool to accommodate the ejection device and its associated operating means, which are normally hydraulic. this invention provides an ejection device for use with a moulding tool comprising an ejector plate capable of being mounted on a cavity plate of the moulding tool for movement towards and away from the cavity plate and carrying at least one ejection pin which, when the ejector plate is moved towards the cavity plate, passes through an opening in the cavity plate to extend proud of the surface thereof, wherein cam means provided on the underside of the ejector plate remote from the cavity plate are operable to cause said movement of the ejector plate towards the cavity plate. by the use of cam means for operating the ejection device of the invention it is possible to locate the operating means for the ejection device to one side of the moulding tool instead of in line with the moulding tool and thus the space required for accommodating the moulding tool with its associated ejector plates can be greatly reduced. in a preferred form of the invention the cam means comprises one or more rolling bearing means that co-operate with one or more wedge shaped driving surfaces. the wedge shaped driving surfaces may be provided on the underside of the ejector plate with the rolling bearing means being provided on a movable member such that when moved from a rest position to an operative position they bear on the wedged shaped driving surfaces and force the ejector plate towards the cavity plate but preferably the rolling bearing means are carried on the ejector plate and the wedge shaped driving surfaces are provided on a movable member. the movable member is preferably a movable bar extending generally parallel to and spaced at a fixed distance from the ejector plate. the invention will now be described by way of example only with reference to the accompanying drawings in which: fig. 1 is a bottom plan of part of a moulding tool having an ejection device embodying the invention; fig. 2 is a vertical section on
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims 1. an ejection device for use with a moulding tool comprising an ejector plate capable of being mounted on a cavity plate of the moulding tool for movement towards and away from the cavity plate and carrying at least one ejection pin which when the ejector plate is moved towards the cavity plate passes through an opening or plurality of openings in the cavity plate to stand proud of the surface thereof, wherein cam means provided on the underside of the ejector plate remote   frcm    the cavity plate are operable to cause said movement of the ejector plate towards the cavity plate.   2. a device according to claim 1 wherein the cam means comprise one or more rolling bearing means that co-operate with one or more wedge shaped driving surfaces.   3. a device according to claim 2 wherein the driving surfaces are carried by the ejector plate and the rolling bearing means are carried by a movable member so positioned relative to the driving surfaces that on movement of the member from a rest position to an operative position co-operation between the driving surfaces and the rolling bearing means force the ejector plate towards the cavity plate.   4. a device according to claim 2 wherein the rolling bearing means are provided on the ejector plate and the driving surfaces are provided on a movable member so positioned relative to the driving surfaces that on movement of the member from a rest position to   ar.    operative position co-operation between the driving surfaces and the rolling bearing means force the ejector plate towards the cavity plate.     5. a device according to claim 3 or claim 4 wherein the movable member is a movable bar extending generally parallel to and spaced, at a fixed distance from the ejector plate.   6. a device according to any of claims 1 to 5 including a housing comprising a bottom plate and walls at opposite longitudinal ends of the bottom plate which walls serve as spacer blocks separating the bottom plate from the cavity plate of the mould, and the ejector plate is slideably mounted on pillars extending vertically from said bottom plate.   7. a device as claimed in claim 6 wherein the ends of said pillars remote from said bottom plate are so formed that they can be attached to the cavity plate of the moulding tool.    8. a device according to claim 6 or claim 7 wherein the movable member is slideably located in a groove in the bottom plate of the housing and extends beyond the housing.   9. a device according to claim 8 wherein the end of the movable member outside the housing is provided with means for attachment to a hydraulic cylinder or the like.   10. a moulding tool comprising a cavity plate and, mounted on the cavity plate, an ejection device according to any of claims 1 to 9.     11. a moulding tool as claimed in claim 10 wherein the ejector plate is resiliently biased away from the cavity plates.   12. a moulding tool according to claim 11 wherein the ejector plate is resiliently biased away from the cavity plate by means of compression springs melted on shoulder screws which pass slideably through the ejector plate and are screwed into the cavity plate.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
