<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0017255
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19801015
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
F02D-21/00 F02D-21/08 F02M-23/00 F02M-23/04 F02P-5/15 F02D-41/24 F02D-41/00 G01L-9/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
signal processing apparatus for obtaining control parameters in electronic engine control system
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
hitachi ltdjp<sep>hitachi, ltd.<sep>hitachi, ltd.5-1, marunouchi 1-chome chiyoda-ku, tokyo 100 jp <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
miki masayukijp<sep>sasayama takaojp<sep>sato hideojp<sep>miki, masayuki<sep>sasayama, takao<sep>sato, hideo<sep>miki, masayuki2643-1 taibouchikatsukara katsuta-shijp<sep>sasayama, takao2712-34 kanesawachohitachi-shijp<sep>sato, hideono. 524 ishinazaka apartment161, ishinazakacho hitachi-shijp<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
in an electronic control system for controlling an internal combustion engine by using a computer, a pressure signal processing unit for obtaining an engine intake manifold pressure and the atmospheric pressure as control parameters in a form suited to be converted into corresponding digital values for use in the processing by the computer.  the processing unit includes a pressure gauge (58) for producing a voltage output signal corresponding to the measured pressure, and a v-f conversion circuit (60, 61, 62 or 78, 80, 82, 84, 86) for converting the voltage output signal into a frequency signal having a frequency which corresponds to the voltage of the voltage output signal. 
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
signal processing apparatus for obtaining control parameters in electronic engine ccntrol system. the present invention relates to a signal processing apparatus for obtaining control parameters used in an electronic control system for controlling operation of an internal combustion engine for a motor vehicle. in particular, the invention concerns such a signal processing apparatus in an electronic engine control system using a computer which is adapted to obtain the control parameters such as the atmospheric pressure, air intake manifold pressure of the engine or the like in a signal form suited for being subjected to analog-to-digital conversion before being applied to the processings by the computer. the electronic engine control system incorporating a computer for controlling operation of the internal combustion engine for a motor vehicle attracts great attention. various types of the control systems have been developed. a typical one of such systems is disclosed in a co-pending u.s. patent application serial no. (not decided) in the name of toshio furuhashi, entitled "electronic type engine control method and apparatus", assigned to the same assignee and claiming the convention priority of japanese patent applications no. 40901/79 filed on april 6, 1979 and no. 70067/79 filed on june 6, 1979. as is disclosed in the copending u.s. application, the control system of this type makes use of the air intake or suction pressure in the engine intake manifold as a control parameter for controlling a fuel supply quantity, for example. recently, the atmospheric pressure is also used as one of the control parameters in order to effect the fuelair ratio control with a high accuracy in consideration of the fact that the density of intake air undergoes variation in dependence on the atmospheric pressure. the intake manifold pressure and the atmospheric pressure are usually measured by a diaphragm type pressure gauge having strain gauge elements electrically connected in a bridge circuit. the voltage output from the pressure gauge representative of the suction pressure in the intake manifold of engine or the atmospheric pressure is subjected to an analog-to-digital conversion so as to be processed by a micro-computer. one of the problems in such control systems is such that a relatively expensive a-d converter is required for obtaining a digital value through conversion from the analog voltage representing the suction pressure or the atmospheric pressure. another disadvantage of the prior art control system resides in that the digital value obtained through a/d conversion often contains errors due to the possible noises derived from other electric apparatus such as ignition system, radio communication equipments or the like and superposed on the sampled instantaneous value of the analog voltage, resulting eventually in an unsatisfactory control. in order to evade the influence of the noises by using a hitherto known a/d converter, a filter specifically designed to eliminate the possible frequency components of the noise has to be additionally provided, which means that the manufacturing cost is correspondingly increased. besides, an extreme difficulty will be encountered in eliminating the noise to a satisfactory degree even by
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
what we claim is   1. in an electronic engine control system including a computer for an internal combustion engine, a signal processing apparatus (144 or 154) for obtaining a pressure signal as a control parameter to be used for processing by the computer, said signal processing apparatus including a pressure gauge (58) for detecting a pressure as the control parameter and generating a voltage signal of a voltage magnitude corresponding to said pressure, and a v-f conversion circuit (60, 61, 62 or 78, 80, 82, 84, 86) for converting said voltage signal into a frequency signal having a frequency corresponding to said voltage magnitude.   2. a signal processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said control parameter is the atmospheric pressure, and said pressure gauge is constituted by an absolute pressure type semiconductor pressure gauge incorporating a bridge connection of semiconductor gauge elements (1, 2, 3 and 4).   3. a signal processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said control parameter is a pressure prevailing in a manifold of said engine, and said pressure gauge is constituted by a relative pressure type semiconductor pressure gauge incorporating a bridge connection of semiconductor gauge elements (1, 2, 3 and 4).   4. a signal processing apparatus according to claim 1 or 2, wherein said v-f conversion circuit comprises  a series connection of a differential integrator circuit (60) and a voltage-frequency converter (6i), and a feedback circuit including a frequency-voltage converter (62), said differential integrator circuit has one terminal supplied with a voltage output from said pressure gauge and the other terminal supplied with an output signal from said voltage-frequency converter through said feedback circuit.   5. a signal processing apparatus according to claim 1 or 2, wherein said v-f conversion circuit comprises an analog switch (78) for receiving a voltage output from said pressure gauge and producing an output signal with a polarity corresponding to an applied control signal, an integrator circuit (80).for integrating the output signal from said analog switch, a first comparator (82) for comparing the integrated output from said integrator circuit with a first reference signal to thereby produce an output signal when said integrated output is greater than said first reference signal, a second comparator (84) for comparing said integrated output with a second reference signal to thereby produce an output signal when said integrated output is smaller than said second reference signal,  a flip-flop circuit (86) adapted to be set in response to the output signal from said second comparator to thereby produce a set signal and adapted to be reset in response to the output signal from said first comparator to thereby produce said set signal, and a circuit for supplying said  set signal from said flip-flop to said analog switch as said control signal.   6. an electronic engine control system for controlling an internal combustion engine by using a computer, comprising a computer control circuit (108) including a fuel-air ratio control, a pressure gauge (58) for measuring the atmospheric pressure as a control parameter used in said computer control circuit, a voltagefrequency conversion circuit (60, 61, 62 or 78, 80, 81, 82, 84, 86) for converting an output voltage from said pressure gauge into a frequency signal having a frequency which corresponds to said output voltage, a/d converter means (fig. 9a) for detecting the frequency of said frequency signal to thereby convert said frequency signal into a digital value representing said frequency, and means (fig.  lob) for correcting by said digital value a calculated intake air quantity arithmetically determined from predetermined parameters including a pressure in a manifold of said engine, in order to determine the intake air quantity as a function of the atmospheric pressure, said intake air quantity being used for determining a control quantity for said fuel-air ratio control.   7. an electronic engine control system according to claim 6, further including a second pressure gauge for measuring the pressure in the engine manifold, a second voltage-frequency conversion circuit for converting the voltage output from said second pressure gauge into a second frequency signal having a frequency which corresponds  to said voltage, and second a/d converting means for detecting the frequency of said second frequency signal and converting said signal into a digital value representing said frequency, wherein said digital value is used as the pressure value of the engine manifold for arithmetically determining said calculated intake air quantity.   8. an electronic engine control system according to calim 6, wherein said v-f conversion circuit comprises a series connection of a differential integrator circuit (60) and a voltage-frequency converter (61) and a feedback circuit including a frequency-voltage converter   (62)    said differential integrator circuit has one terminal supplied with a voltage output from said pressure gauge and the other terminal supplied with the output signal from said voltage-frequency converter through said feedback   circuit. e    9. an electronic engine control system according to claim 6, wherein said v-f conversion circuit comprises an analog switch (78) for receiving a voltage output from said pressure gauge and producing an output signal with a polarity corresponding to an applied control signal, an integrator circuit (80) for integrating the output signal from said analog switch, a first comparator (82) for comparing the integrated output from said integrator circuit with a first reference signal to thereby produce an output signal when said integrated output is greater than said first reference signal, a second comparator (84) for comparing said  integrated output with a second reference signal to thereby produce an output signal when said integrated output is smaller than said second reference signal,   a flip-flop circuit (86) adapted to be set in response to the output signal from said second comparator to thereby produce a set signal and adapted to be reset in response to the output signal from said first comparator to thereby produce said set signal, and a circuit for supplying said set signal from said flip-flop to said analog switch as said control signal.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
