<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0014775
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800903
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
E04B-1/348 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
building comprising a plurality of similar basic building elements interconnected on the building site, and method of erecting a building such as this.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
bijl henry feico <sep>bijl, henry feico <sep>bijl, henry feicono.1, h.van bontsfortstraatnl-3067 jm rotterdamnl<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
bijl henry feico<sep>bijl, henry feico<sep>bijl, henry feicono.1, h.van bontsfortstraatnl-3067 jm rotterdamnl<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
building comprising a plurality of similar self-supporting  basic building elements interconnected on the building site.   the roof, the floors and the walls are applied after interconnecting  the basic building elements.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
building comprising a plurality of similar basic building elements interconnected on the building site the invention relates to a building comprising a plurality of similar basic building elements interconnected on the building site. in the building industry, particularly in developing countries, there is a need for a building system which permits of rapidly erecting houses and the like on a building site with a minimum of labour. particularly in developing countries professional knowledge on the building site is limited and it is, therefore, preferred to use as far as possible prefabricated elements. however, the building system to be employed has to be such that a high degree of flexibility of design is ensured. the invention has for its object to provide a building system which allows a great variety in design and in which nevertheless basic subassemblies are employed. according to the invention this is achieved in that the basic building elements are individually self-supporting and are shaped in the form of a cubic frame of steel beams. the beams of the frame may be interconnected by screw joints. moreover, the basic elements can be interconnected by screw joints. on the building site it is sufficient to erect the frame by interconnecting the beams by means of screw bolt joints, which operation can be carried out by unskilled labour. the frame is anchored to the foundation for example, by anchoring bolts embedded in the foundation, which pass into bores in the frame beams so that they can be fixed ably means of nuts. the resultant frame structure satisfies alt requirements of conventional building technology i.e. supporting function and storm resistance. on both sides of the horizontal or vertical beams on the outer side walls can be erected, a cavity being left between said walls. the wall preferably consists of prefabricated elements, which are preferably fastened to said beams. these elements may be made of synthetic material or another suitable material. the invention provides the possibility of attaching the wall elements to the beams with the aid of strips damping the contact noise on the contact places with the elements. for the floor and the roof there may be used prefabricated elements. the partitions may also be built from prefabricated elements. conduits for heating, electricity and water may be disposed above the ceilings or beneath the floor. as an alternative they may be arranged vertically or horizontally through the cavities of the walls. the invention will be described more fully with reference to the accompanying drawing of an embodiment. in the drawing: figure 1 is a schematic plan of a building in accordance with the invention, figure 2 is a perspective view of a building erected from basic elements embodying the invention, figure 3 is a perspective view of the building of figure 2 in the finished state, figure 4 is a perspective view of a corner of a basic element in accordance with the invention, and figure 5 illustrates a corner of a basic element in accordance with the invention
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims    1. a building comprising a plurality of similar basic building elements interconnected on the building site, whereby said basic building elements are individually self-supporting and are shaped in the form of a cubic frame of steel beams characterized in that the beams of the frame and the basic elements are interconnected by screw joints.    2. a building as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that on both sides of the horizontal or vertical beams on the outer side walls are erected between which   a a cavity is left.       3. a building as claimed in claim 2, characterized in that the wall is made from prefabricated elements.    4. a building as claimed in claims 1-3, characterized in that prefabricated elements are used for the floor and the roof.    5. a building as claimed in claims 1-4, characterized in that a strip of material damping the contact noise is arranged between the wall and floor parts and the adjoining beams.       6. 6. a method of erecting a building as claimed in    one or more of the preceding claims characterized in that the steps of anchoring the beams of one or more elements to the foundation on the building site  and of connecting said beams with one another or with the basic elements, the steps of interconnecting said elements, disposing the roof elements, applying the cavity wall elements arranging the floor elements and of erecting inner wall elements.    7. a method as claimed in claim 6, characterized in that the roof elements are first disposed.    8. a method as claimed in claim 7, characterized in that the conduits for heating, electricity and water are disposed above the ceilings and in the outer cavity wall.    9. a method as claimed in claims 6-8, characterized in that the inlet and outlet ducts for the central heating radiators are passed through the inner cavity wall into or out of the rooms.    10. a method as claimed in claims 6-9, characterized in that hot or cool air is conducted through the cavity of the outer wall and the space between the ceiling and the roof.      claims  1. a building comprising a plurality of similar basic building elements interconnected on the building site, characterized in that said basic building elements are individually self-supporting and are shaped in the form of a cubic frame of steel beams.    2. a building as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that the beams of the frame are interconnected by screw joints.    3. a building as claimed in claim 1-2, characterized in that the basic elements are interconnected by screw joints.    4. a building as claimed in claims 1-3, characterized in that on both sides of the horizontal or vertical beams on the outer side walls are erected between which a cavity is left.    5. a building as claimed in claim 4, characterized in that the wall is made from prefabricated elements.    6. a building as claimed in claim 1-5, characterized in that prefabricated elements are used for the floor and the roof.      7. a building as claimed in claims 1-6, characterized in that a strip of material damping the contact noise is arranged between the wall and floor parts and the adjoining beams.    8. a method of erecting a building as claimed one or more of the preceding claims characterized in that the steps of anchoring the beams of one   ot)    more elements to the foundation on the building site and of connecting said beams with one another or with the basic elements, the steps of interconnecting said elements, disposing the roof elements, applying the cavity wall elements, arranging the floor elements and of erecting inner wall elements.     9. a method as claimed in claim 8, characterized in that the roof elements are first disposed.    10. a method as claimed in claim 8, characterized in that the conduits for heating, electricity and water are disposed above the ceilings and in the outer cavity wall.    11. a method as claimed in claims 8-10 characterized in that the inlet and outlet ducts for the central heating radiators are passed through the inner cavity wall into or out of the rooms.    12. a method as claimed in claims 8-11, characterized in that hot or cool air is conducted through the cavity of the outer wall and the space between the ceiling and the roof.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
