<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0007325
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800206
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
C02F-1/461 <main>C02F-1/46</main> C02F-1/66 C02F-9/00 C02F-1/52 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
process and assembly for removing a dissolved or suspended contaminant from a polar liquid as a solid substance.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
alexander john a<sep>lindman william edward  <sep>alexander, john a.<sep>lindman, william edward<sep>alexander, john a.box 288cayucos california 93430us<sep>lindman, william edward10189 oriole avenuefountain valley california 92708us<sep>alexander, john a.<sep>lindman, william edward <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
alexander john a<sep>lindman william edward<sep>alexander, john a.<sep>lindman, william edward<sep>alexander, john a.box 288cayucos california 93430us<sep>lindman, william edward10189 oriole avenuefountain valley california 92708us<sep>alexander, john a. <sep>lindman, william edward  <sep>alexander, john a.box 288cayucos california 93430us<sep>lindman, william edward10189 oriole avenuefountain valley california 92708us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
solid and/or dissolved contaminants are separated from  a polar liquid such as water by providing in the contaminated,  acidic liquid medium a galvanically charged particulate dis­ persion of defined size, concentration, density and free sur­ face energy, and then flowing such loaded medium through  successive oxidation and treatment zones of an electrically  insulated apparatus at a rate defined by dimensionless para­ meters such as reynolds numbers, etc. , so as to prevent  phase separation.  gaseous oxygen adheres to particle sur­ faces and oxidation is further promoted by bringing medium  to ph 2. 0 to 2. 5 as with sulfur dioxide gas, plus exposure to  action of heavy-metal ions such as ferrous/ferric.  after air  blowing, medium is neutralized and brought to ph 10-11 with  continuous aeration of suspended flocculant, then treated  with soda ash and optionally additional particulate (recycled  sludge), and the contaminant matter then allowed to precipi­ tate with concurrent galvanic grounding of the medium.  the  dispersed particulate matter may be inert and deliberately  added (e. g. , shredded cellulose) or it may be produced in situ  by fractionation of component debris as in sewage-refuse;  when possible, as in the latter case, the particle itself is subse­ quently oxidized.  in either event, dual end products are pot­ able water and sterile sludge.  dissolved salts such as sodium  chloride are simultaneously removed from medium as com­ ponent of sludge; applicable to remove toxic components  from cooling water systems, recover traces of precious met­ als, etc. , from slurry or run-off liquid, brackish water, indus­ trial waste, etc.  suitable treating apparatus is also provided.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
galvanic flow systbt fop joint particulate recovery and liquid purification the demand for water purification does not arise solely from the need for treating sewage or noxious industrial waste, nor is it necessarily directed merely toward obtaining potable water for humans and animals. recent environment control regulations have restrained the discard of water such as that which through ordinary industrial use has appreciably increased its content of dissolved solids (which are generally inorganic or mineral compounds) as well as inhibiting discard of such liquid which has accumulated or concentrated particular toxic components. for example, the body of water which is circulated as a coolant in many industrial or chemical plants, is then returned to a heat exchanger where part of it is evaporated in order to reduce the temperature of the remainder, which remainder is then recirculated. this evaporation step itself would increase the concentration of contained solids merely bo reducing the volume of liquid. however, in its travel, the liquid picks up deposits or sediment from the plumbing system, and in addition, in order to minimize corrosion, foaming and scale formation (such as resulting from '#ard water"), various inhibitory additives are mixed into the circulating stream. these obviously contribute further to the dissolved solid content and after the latter has built up to the maximum allowable for continued circulation, it becomes necessary to discard part of the fluid mixture and replace it with fresh water (and new additives). however, this heavily loaded discard has now become an illegal pollutant when released into flowing streams or ocean. the problem is to purify it before release; and hopefully if such purification process is sufficiently successful or complete, the water may be reused indefinitely and need not be released at all. a particular contaminant in such cooling water system is chromium which is a component of many anti-corrosive or biocide additives. thus hexavalant chromium is a toxic substance not releasable to the environment. other toxic components of common cooling water additives are cyanides and phosphates, which must be detoxified before release. phrification of polluted water for purposes of reuse, whether starting with agriculture/municipal sewage or with industrial waste, has been concerned primarily with recovery of potable water, only after the initial separation and disposal of solid components in an inert state, this being considered a necessary and preliminary step for any subsequent treatment. the solids may have then been utilized to a small extent as plant support base or land fill,but such product is not a primary purpose for effecting the separation and for the most part the undifferentiated sludge is simply separated in bulk and discarded in the manner most convenient. purification of the aqueous phase then takes place (if at all) as a successive, rather than concurrent, procedure. -however, it will be realized that the aqueous run-off from many and probably most watertreating procedures (even if only involving flushing) carries a quantity of solid and potentially-solid ingredients having tangible economic value if such could only be recovered in concentrated form
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims   1. a process for removing from a polar liquid as a solid substance, a dispersed soluble or suspended contaminant, of which any suspended particles thereof are characterised by van der waals effect and which contaminant is capable of solid existence at ambient operating temperature and pressure, characterised in that said process comprises  (a) dispersing in said liquid a minimum of about   0.1%o    w.   random-moving particulate matter, which may either be added or be formed by fractionation of said contaminant when the latter is initially present in bulk, which dispersed particles thereof have a density of about 1.05 to about 2.0 and a size.of about 30 to about 225 microns with free surface energy of about 100 to about 500   ergs/cm2,    and also reducing any additional solid matter present to such particle size,  (b) providing an oxidation medium for such of the contaminant and added particles as may be capable of oxidation, by making such liquid acidic, intimately dispersing gaseous oxygen therein, and providing a supply of free electrons as by acidic dissociation of the polar liquid and by oxidation in situ of a heavy metal provided therein, which metal is characterised by the capacity of subsequently forming a flocculant precipitate in alkaline media,  whereby a galvanic charge is imparted to the moving particles by random distribution and attachment of the electrons thereto,  (c) maintaining said charge on the moving particles and restraining coagulation and phase separation of particles and soluble contaminants during successive oxidative reaction periods by agitation effected at least in part by flowing the liquid and its contents through electrically-insulated and flow-connected reaction vessels in intimate mixture with gaseous oxygen and at  a variable flow rate defined by dimensionless parameters derived from the internal size and shape of the respective vessels and their connecting conduits,.    (d) making said liquid alkaline, subsequently ceasing agitation and electrically grounding the alkaline liquid, whereby flocculating ions of the heavy metal provided therein,   mutually    precipitate the charged particles, the metal ions and soluble contaminants, thus yielding an oxygen-containing supernatent pure liquid.   2. a process as claimed in claim 1, in which said oxidation medium of (b) comprises sulfite and sulfurous ions and is made   ph    of about 2 to about 2.5, and said heavy metal comprises iron.   3. a process as claimed in claim 1 or 2, in which the liquid of (d) is made ph of about 10 to about 11.   4. a process as claimed in claim 1, 2 or 3, in which said polar liquid is predominantly water.   5. a process as claimed in any preceding claim, in which:  (i) said flowable polar liquid comprises sewage/refuse containing bulk solids which are substantially reduced to the particle size of   (a);     (ii) an inorganic salt is a soluble contaminant of the polar liquid and is substantially removed therefrom in the precipitate of (d);  (iii) the suspended contaminant comprises fecal matter which is reduced to the particle size of (a) in situ;  (iv) sodium chloride is a soluble contaminant of the polar liquid which is water;  (v) the soluble contaminant comprises hexavalent chromium or cyanide ion.   6. a process as claimed in claim 1, 2 or 5, in which said dimensionless parameters are selected from a group comprising reynolds numbers, peclet numbers, lehman reaction numbers, shape factors, schmidt numbers, contact numbers, weber numbers,   grashaf-prandtl    numbers, and stanton numbers.   7. a process as claimed in claim 2, in which said contaminant comprises hexavalent chromium and said process includes the steps of reducing hexavalent chromium to trivalent chromium by reaction with sulfite and ferrous ions in the presence of ferrous sulfate at   ph    about 2.0 to about 2.5, then converting  trivalent chromium to chromium hydroxide at pr about 10,5 to about 11.0, and jointly precipitating same in admixture with ferric hydroxide, 8. a process as claimed in claim 5, in which said contaminant comprises soluble cyanide and said process includes the steps of oxidizing the cyanide to cyanate at about   pr    8.5 in said particulate carrying liquid, which liquid is substantially saturated with gaseous oxygen, then   forming    an iron cyanate complex by reaction of the cyanate with ferrous ion, then making the 1 iquid alkaline and converting the complex to carbon dioxide and nitrogen by reaction with hydroxyl ion.   9. a process as claimed in claim 1, in which prior to the flocculation of the charged particles and contaminants, there is reintroduced to said liquid about   15só    to about   3n,'    of flocculated sludge plus soda ash, and the resultant mixture is heated at about   1000f    to about   aloof    with agitation, and then flocculated as recited in (d), thereby increasing the removal of silica, magnesium and calcium from the liquid.   10. a process as claimed in claim 1 or 9 in which the heated liquid flow is moved through a zone adapted additionally to receive and intermingle therewith soda ash and recycled sludge, said flow being moved in accordance with the dimensionless parameters, reynolds number 30,000 to 40,000 and grashof prandtl number product 25,600 to   230,000.      11. a process according to claim 1 or 2, in which  (i) said oxidation medium of "b" is moved through a zone wherein said heavy metal produces free electrons, at a reynolds number of about 967 to 2900, a shape factor of 9.5 to 11.3, a schmidt number of 4 x   10-7    to 1.3 x   10-6,    and a contact number of 228 to 446;  (ii) said polar liquid is moved through a zone wherein gas is mixed therewith in accordance with the dimensionless parameters; peclet number 9 to 25, shape factor 9 to 10, a reynolds number of 400 to 500 for gas flow, 5000 to 10,000 with gas contact and 7000 to 18,000 without gas contact, a lehman reaction number of 3.5 to 8 for blow tubes carrying gas into said zone, and a stanton number of 35.50 to 36.20; ;  (iii) the alkalation of   "d"    is effected in a zone of liquid flow which is agitated by air moved countercurrent there  through, said liquid being moved at a peclet number of   t2    to 32 and the air being introduced therein by sparge lines having a lehman reaction number of 3.4 to 4.4 or by blow shear tubes having a lehman reaction number of 6.7 to 7.7, and   b    stanton number of 28.60 to 10,160;  (iv) the flocculation and precipitation of "d" is effected in a zone wherein the flow is moved at a reynolds number of 2000 to 3700.   12. an assembly for purification of contaminated liquid including liquid flow control means, characterised in the following sequentially connected units;  (a) liquid container means including associated means for selectively macerating solid components of a thus-contaminated liquid, and gas   de#very/aeration    means for passing gas into intimate admixture with said contaminated liquid and macerated components,  (b) acidic treatment means, flow connected to said container means, and including means for regulation of ph by selective introduction of acidic and gaseous oxidizing reagents to the contaminated liquid,  (c) container and reactant means, flow connected to said last treatment means, and comprising a source of soluble heavy metal ions adapted to mingle with the liquid flow stream,  and means for subsequently aerating the liquid flow by passing gaseous oxygen   therethrough;     (d) neutralization means, flow connected to said last aerating means, and including proximate means for introducing alkaline reagent into the liquid flow, and a plurality of successively distal means for intimately mixing gaseous oxygen into the alkaline flow stream in amount adapted to restrain precipitation of   contaminants    by agitation thereof;  ;  (e) means for flocculating separable contaminant components of the alkaline flow stream, substantially concurrent with electrical grounding of said stream, and switch means for electrically grounding said alkaline flow stream,  each of said units starting with (b) being electrically insulated from ground support, and said flocculating means (e) being electrically insulated from the preceding flow connected unit, whereby a galvanic charge may be imparted to solid   particles of the liquid flow by ph regulation and electrons of said soluble heavy metal ions and such charge maintained until discharged by the switch means.   13. an assembly as claimed in claim 12, which includes between units (d) and (e), means for simultaneously heating and agitating the alkaline flow stream while continually restraining precipitation.    14. an assembly according to claim 12, in which unit (d) comprises an elongated chamber and said oxygen mixing means which is located distal to the alkaline introducing means, comprises successive downstream gas delivery conduits individually having ejection nozzles transversely disposed within the flow stream at successive staggered angular displacement from the longitudinal axis of the chamber, which conduits have individual flow control means whereby the gas inflow therethrough may be adjusted to changing turbidity of the flow stream immediately adjacent each nozzle.   15. potable water derived from contaminated liquid or potable water and an aggregation of minute metallic particles individually derived from a liquid suspension containing said particles whenever obtained by the process or apparatus claimed in any of the preceding claims.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
