<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0003051
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19790725
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<main>G03G-15/00</main> G03G-21/16 B41F-7/00 B41F-13/08 G03G-21/00 G03G-15/00 B41F-7/02 F16C-13/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
method of mounting printing cylinders utilizing flexible metal sleeves and printing apparatus using such a printing cylinder.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
stork brabant bvnl <sep>stork brabant b.v. <sep>stork brabant b.v.wim de körverstraat 43anl-5831 an boxmeernl<sep>stork brabant b.v.  <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
anselrode lodewijk<sep>vertegaal jacobus gerardus<sep>anselrode, lodewijk<sep>vertegaal, jacobus gerardus<sep>anselrode, lodewijk5845 ej st.anthonisnl<sep>vertegaal, jacobus gerardusv. grotenhuisstraat 35831 gl. boxmeernl<sep>anselrode, lodewijk<sep>vertegaal, jacobus gerardus<sep>anselrode, lodewijk5845 ej st.anthonisnl<sep>vertegaal, jacobus gerardusv. grotenhuisstraat 35831 gl. boxmeernl<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
printing apparatus of the type utilizing flexible, readily  collapsible, imperforate thin metal sleeves wherein the  sleeves are mounted in a device which maintains their  cylindrical configuration rigidified by introduction of fluid  under pressure interior of the sleeve during use.  a method of mounting the sleeve (10) and several  structures for supporting the sleeves are described.  these  include the provision of means in the printing press cooperating  with the sleeves for maintaining its interior pressure  and for stopping the press if the pressure should drop below  a predetermined value.  the sleeves may carry an exterior  coating of flexible, microcrystalline, wholly inorganic photo-conductive  material such as sputtered ultra-pure cadmium  sulfide.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
the invention is concerned generally with printing apparatus which include cylinders for transferring of pigment to a substrate using electrostatic techniques. the invention is advantageously utilizable in the printing of multicolor images on substrates which are either in long strip form or in the form of sheets of paper, fabric and the like. multicolor printing by conventional presses is a complex process from the point of making the color separations, forming the cylinders, operating the presses, providing the pigment or inks for the separate cylinders or other plates, etc. several developments in recent years have pointed to the use of electrostatic techniques for multicolor printing in printing presses using electrostatic techniques. as known, photoelectrostatic imaging is effected by charging the surface of a photoconductive coating in darkness, exposing the same to a light image, then toning the latent image with fine particles either in powder form or suspended in a solvent. the toned or developed image can either be transferred to a receptor or it can be fused in place directly onto the electrophotographic member of which the photo conductive coating is a part. one of the coatings which has been evolved recently is a high gain, high resolution, easely charged, fully dischargeable, wholly inorganic, microcrystalline photoconductive material which has especially the property that it is rugged and extremely flexible when coated onto a thin flexible substrate. the material is disclosed in u.s. patent 4.025.339. this coating is advantageous in addition to being flexible in that it can be imaged quickly in a high speed press and discharged readily by ambient light so that, as will be explained, it can be provided with an image of toner that is insulating and thereafter charged to apply a charge to the insulating toner while permitting the charge on the untoned areas to be dissipated in light. secondary toner then can be adhered to the primary toned image and transferred to a substrate. thin-walled metal sleeves of electrodeposited nickel, copper, iron or other metal have been used in the fabric and other substrate printing field with success. sleeves of plated metal may be used, such as for example, tin, chromium or other metals as nickel. these sleeves are a fraction of a millimeter thick and can be several meters long and as much as a third of a meter in diameter. they are seamless and are readily supported in printing machines. one type of sleeve is disclosed in u.s. patent 2.287.122. such sleeve is foraminous in order to enable ink or other pigment to be expressed by doctor means through the walls of the cylinders onto the passing substrate. the walls are provided with suitable designs in the surface blocking certain of the holes and leaving others open. for electrostatic use, these sleeves are sputtered with coatings of the photoconductive material which has been mentioned and are imperforate. an important ad vantage of this type of sleeve is that it is light in weight, it is quite strong and is collapsible so that
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims   1. a method of mounting an elongate flexible thinwalled metal sleeve on a frame for use in a rotary printing press, characterized by the steps of providing a rotatable framework including a device for shaping the sleeve into a cylinder; engaging the sleeve over the framework; formind the ends of the sleeve into circles; sealing the ends; containing the ends against axial movement and applying fluid pressure on the interior of the sleeve to inflate the same with uniform incremental internal pressure along said interior thereof.   2. the mounting method according to claim 1, characterized in that the sleeve is unsupported along the remaining length between the ends of said sleeve.   3. the mounting method according to claim   1    or 2, characterized in that the fluid pressure is applied directly to the interior of the sleeve.   4. the mounting method according to claim   1    or 2, characterized in that the fluid pressure is applied indirectly to the interior of the sleeve by introducing an inflatable body within the sleeve and introducing fluid under pressure to said inflatable body whereby to apply pressure to said sleeve interior sufficient to rigidify the same.     5. a printing apparatus including a support for an imperforate thin-walled metal sleeve for use as an ink transfer device, the sleeve being flexible and collapsible when unsupported, characterized by a. an elongate framework including shaft means  having opposite ends for connecting the frame  wirk into a printing press to be rotated thereby,  a disc member at each end of the framework  connected respectively to one of said shaft  ends and each disc member adapted to have one  end of a thin-walled metal sleeve coupled  thereto and circularly shaped thereby and an  axially extending spacer connected between said  shaft ends for fixedly spacing the disc members  apart and maintaining the spacing during the  use of the apparatus, b.  the axially extending spacer being arranged to  have such a length as to form the sleeve into  cylindrical configuration in cooperation with  the disc members and c. means for applying a uniform pressure on the  interior of the sleeve every increment thereof  over the entire area thereof between said ends  in order to maintain its cylindrical configuration  during use of the apparatus.   6. the apparatus according to claim 5, characterized in that the axially extending spacer means comprise an elongate rigid cylinder whose outer diameter is less than the inner diameter of the sleeve which is adapted to be supported by the apparatus whereby there will be a cylindrical space defined between the outer surface of the rigid cylinder and the inner surface of the  sleeve when it is installed, the said pressure being supplied into said cylindrical space and the sleeve thereby being mechanically unsupported throughout its major length during use.   7. the apparatus according to claim 6, characterized in that said means for applying pressure include means for introducing fluid under pressure in the framework and transmitting the pressure to said cylindrical space when the sleeve is installed in place.   8. the apparatus according to claim 5 or 6, characterized in that the means for introducing pressure include at least one passageway through the shaft means and connecting conduit means between said passageway and the interior of said sleeve for applying said pressure on the interior wall of said sleeve.   9. the apparatus according to claim 5 or 6, characterized in that the means for introducing pressure include at least one passageway through the shaft means and means for establishing a connection between said passageway and an external source of fluid under pressure.   10. the apparatus according to claim 6 or 7, characterized in that there is a generally cylindrical inflatable boot sealed to said rigid cylinder and the means for applying pressure include a conduit for leading fluid to the interior of the boot to expand same into engagement with the interior of the sleeve.   11. the apparatus according to claims 6 or 7, charac  terized in that the opposite ends of the rigid cylinder are provided with respective inflatable cushions adapted to be inflated into engagement with the ends of the sleeve to seal and clamp said sleeve ends between the rigid cylinder and the shaft having a first passageway means for introducing a first fluid under pressure to the interiors of said cushions.   12. the apparatus according to claim 6 or 7, characterized in that there is a coaxial inflatable boot disposed in the framework telecopically located on the interior of the sleeve and sealed at its ends and structure for leading the fluid to the interior of the boot to inflate the same against the inside surface of the sleeve.   13. the apparatus according to claim 5 or 6, characterized in that there is at least one passageway coaxial with and through said shaft, habing its inner end terminating in the interior of the sleeve and its outer end terminating at one of said shaft means ends, a fluid tight connection coupling said sleeve ends, structure for leading fluid under pressure to one shaft means end and into said passageway from the exterior of the framework.   14. the apparatus according to claim 6 or 7, characterized in that the ends of the cylinder have washers closing same off, the shaft means are coaxial with the washers, the disc members are mounted on the shaft means, and the fluid bypasses the cylinder on the exterior thereof.   15. the apparatus according to claim 14, characterized in that the disc members have inwardly  directed axially extending annular flanges and the sleeve is capable of being secured on the interior of the flanges.   16. the apparatus according to claim 15, characterized in that said shaft includes a second passageway means independent of the said one passageway means to enable introducing a second fluid under pressure in the said annular space to inflate said sleeve when installed.   17. the apparatus according to claim 5 or 6, characterized in that there are means for mounting said apparatus for rotation, an external source of fluid under pressure and means extablishing a rotatable fluid coupling leading from said external source of fluid under pressure to said interior whereby to apply fluid pressure thereto during rotation.   18. the apparatus according to claim 5 or 6, characterized in that the sleeve ends are in coupled "b" relationship with the respective disc members.   19. the apparatus according to claim 5, characterized in that said elongate framework includes arigid hollow cylinder having end washers closing the same and said shaft means ends respectively are connected to the respective washers and are axially extending outwardly relative to said cylinder a coupling on the shaft ends for effecting the rotatable connection into the printing press, said framework including a disc member at each end of the calinder connected respectively to the shafts and capable for rotation with said framework, each disc member having a peripheral, annular, axially extending relatively short flange with the flanges and discs forming  cup-like formations opening toward one another and having the inner diameter thereof larger than the exterior diameter of said cylinder,  at least one of the discs being movable axially relative to the other disc and capable of being secured in a predetermined axial position each cup-like formation adapted to have one end of said sleeve coupled thereto for circularly shaping same thereby the position of the movable disc at a location relative to the other disc and the cylinder being fixed when the sleeve is in place so that the sleeve will form a second hollow cylinder coaxial of the first cylinder and surrounding the same and further including a pressurized fluid source, at least one end of said shaft means including a passageway leading fron said shaft means to a space between cylinders at a location axially outward said cylinders.   20. the apparatus as claimed in claim 19 characterized in that a passageway formed through said shaft, an external source of fluid under pressure and a connection between said source and said passageway communicate internally with the interior of the sleeve when said sleeve is so mounted and coupled.   21. apparatus according to claim 5 or 6, characterized in that each disc member has the ends thereof sealybly mounted and coupled to said respective ends of said sleeve, there being no mechanical support provides for said sleeve between its ends when said sleeve is so coupled, said a spacer being connected between the shaft ends for fixedly spacing the disc members apart and maintaining the spacing during the use of the apparatus.   22. the apparatus according to in any one of claim 5  to 21, characterized in that thin-walled metal sleeve has its ends adhesively engaged with said disc members in stretched condition.   23. the apparatus according to any one of claim   1    to 22, characterized in that the sleeve has an exterior thin film coating of a microcrystalline flexible photoconductive material.   24. apparatus for supporting an imperforate thin walled metal sleeve which is flexible and collapsible when unsupported, for use as an ink transfer device in a printing press or the like characterized by a. an elongate hollow shaft having a plug at opposite  ends thereafter and lateral passageways through the  shaft wall between the ends thereof, b. each of the plugs having structure to enable the  apparatus to be removably coupled to a printing  press and be rotated by the press drive on an axis  defined by the axis of the hollow shaft, c.  an imperforate disc connected to each of the plugs  coaxial with said shaft and having a circumferential  groove on its face located radially inward of its  outer edge, the diameter of the grooves being sub  standially greater than the outer diameter of the  hollow shaft, said grooves facing one another  axially and providing seats for the ends of said  thin walled metal sleeve adapted to be engaged  therein and extending between said discs spaced  outwardly of said hollow shaft, d. an elastomeric o-ring engaged in each groove and  a locking ring also axially movable into said    groove and adapted to engage said o-ring and press  same into its groove whereby to clamp the ends of  the thin-walled sleeve into the respective grooves  while forming said ends into circles coaxial with  said shaft, e.  said apparatus providing no support for the  said sleeve when so installed between the clamped  ends thereof other than fluid pressure, f. means for securing the locking rings in said  clamped engagement and g. a valve in at least one of said plugs to enable  the admission of fluid under pressure into the  interior of the sleeve when said sleeve is so  mounted in said apparatus, the valve bein  arranged to retain the fluid pressure in the  apparatus.   25. the apparatus as claimed in claim 24, characterized in that the valve is capable of being opened to connect the apparatus to an external source of pressure while mounted in a printing press and rotating.   26. the apparatus as claimed in claim 25, characterized in that the valve is arranged automatically to close but retain said pressure if the apparatus is removed from said printing press.   27. the apparatus as claimed in claim 26, characterized in that the means for securing the locking rings comprise bolts extending through said discs from the exterior faces thereof and into engagement with the clamping rings on the interior of said grooves.     28. the apparatus as claimed in claim 27, characterized in that the said structure to enable coupling of said apparatus to a printing press comprise tapered sockets formed in each respective plug coaxial with said shaft and at least one of said sockets having key means, said sockets adapted to be engaged with male members connected with said printing press, at least the keyed socket adapted to be engaged with a male member that is rotary.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
