<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0010072
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800416
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B29B-17/04 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
an apparatus for cleaning and crumbling of waste material, particularly synthetic thermoplastics.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
costarelli edoardo<sep>costarelli, edoardo<sep>costarelli, edoardolocalità strozzacapponii-06070 san mariano (perugia) it<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
costarelli edoardo  <sep>costarelli, edoardo<sep>costarelli, edoardolocalità strozzacapponii-06070 san mariano (perugia)it<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
an apparatus for cleaning and crumbling waste mater­ ial, particularly synthetic thermoplastics, in which the mat­ erial to be treated is fed into a tank (1, in the only drawing  enclosed) provided with a sprinkler device (3, 4, 7) and  with a direct flow device (5, 6, 8) for the in-flow of a clean­ ing liquid; said material is stirred, cleaned and crumbled  by means of a rotating device (19,20,21) at the bottom of  said tank and by means of knives (23) on the perimeter  wall of the tank.  the liquid collected in a basin (10)  beneath a grating (9) forming part of the bottom of the  tank is evacuated by a pump (12); means (13, 14, 17) are  also provided for predrying the cleaned material in said  tank.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
an apparatus for cleaning and crumbling of waste material, particularly synthetic thermoplastics. the invention refers to an apparatus for cleaning and crumbling of waste material, in particular synthetic thermoplastics. all processes pertaining to the recovery of thermoplastic waste material, which may then be re-used as raw-material, for instance reduced in loose granulated form, necessarily require said raw-material to be used in a clean condition; therefore generally the only sour of supply is represented by properly conditioned scraps thus exduding the extremely vast source of supply represented by objects of the said material which can be found, but not clean, in the waste from a city. it is the object of this invention to provide an apparatus for the cleaning and crumbling of waste material, particularly grime contaminated synthetic thermoplastics,that may be further treated in later processes. said apparatus comprises substantir1lly:a tank provided with an opening to load the material to be treated and an opening for the exit of material which has undergone treatment, at least the second opening being provided with a closing hatch door; means for the inflow of da rinsing liquid into the said tank; means; fo- stirring the mass of material to be treated, which is submerged in the said rinsing liquid inside the said tank; cutting means, both fixed and movable, for crumbling the material to be treated while it is stirred inside the said tank; and means for the evacuation of said rinsing liquid. the invention will be further described with reference to the only drawing enclosed illustrating the preferred embodiment, in which the apparatus is shown in a schematic elevation view, partially cross sectioned and broken away. referring to the drawing, reference number 1 indicates the tank for the material to be cleaned and crumbled, said tank being a cylindrical steel sheet container supported at a certain height from the ground by a frame base 2. the lid of tank 1 is provided with a loading opening; an automatic discharge weighing hopper (not shown) is preferably placed on the said opening in order to control the quantity of material to be loaded into tank 1, said quantity depending on the capacity of the system. two devices, of which one is a sprinkler and the other is a direct flow device, are otf; housed inside the upper part of tank 1 and placed at different heights, for letting in the rinsing liquid, generally water, heated or not depending on needs, preferably enriched with suitable detergent substances. the sprinkler device, placed above the direct flow device, comprises an annular conduit 3 on the inside of tank 1, said conduit being provided with a plurality of nozzles 4 adjustable both in flow and direction, and its function is to sprinkle the material to be washed from above, while the direct flow device comprises a certain number of inner outlets justable in direction or fixed, placed at a distance all around the tank's inner circumference, the flow of said outlets 5 being also adjustable. said outlets 5
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims:   1. apparatus for cleaning an crumbling of waste material  particularly synthetic thermoplastics, characterized  in that it comprises:  a tank provided with an opening to load the material  to be treated and an opening for the exit of material  which has undergone treatment, at least the second  opening being provided with a closing hatch door;  means for the inflow of a rinsing liquid into the  said tank; means for stirring the mass of material to  be treated which is submerged in the said rinsing  liquid inside the said tank; cutting means, both  fixed and movable, for crumbling the material to be  treated while it is stirred inside the said tank;  and means for the evacuation of said rinsing liquid.   2. the apparatus according to claim 1, characterized  in that said means for the inflow of a rinsing   liquid     into said tank comprise a direct flow device composed  of a series of outlets placed at a distance along  the entire circumference on the same plane or on  different planes on the inside of said tank, which  may be adjustable both in direction and amount of flow  and are connected through appropriate pipes to a  supply source.   3. the apparatus according to claim 1 or 2,   characteriz°¯     in that said means for the inflow of a rinsing liquid  into said tank comprise a sprinkler device composed  of an annular conduit, situated inside the said tank.    provided with a plurality of nozzles which may he ad-  justable in both direction and amount of flow, flows '  connected to a supply source through   appropriave o     4. the apparatus according to any preceding claim,  characterized in that said means for stirring the  mass of material to be treated which is submerged  in the rinsing liquid inside said tank, are composed  by a certain number of blades placed around a central  hub and integral with it, said hub being positioned  close to the surface of the tank's bottom, said hub  being provided with means for connection to driving  means in order to rotate.   5. the apparatus according to any preceding claim,  characterized in that said fixed cutting means for  crumbling the material to be treated while said  material is stirred inside the said tank, are  composed of knives placed at a distance along  the circumference ,preferably on different planes,  on the inside wall of said tank, their extension  towards the inside of said tanks being adjustable,  and the said movable cutting means comprise sharp  edged blades of said stirring means, or cutting blades  associated with said stirring means or both.   6. the apparatus according to any preceding claim,  characterized in that the said rinsing liquid  evacuation means comprise an interchangeable grating  forming at least apart of the bottom of said tank,  communicating with a collecting basin beneath it, which  in turn communicates with an emptying pump.   7. the apparatus according to any preceding claim,  characterized in that a chamber is provided extending  around the outside lower part of said tanh,communicating  with said tank and having the function of improving  circulation of the rinsing liquid.      8. the apparatus according claim 6, characterized in  that means for predrying of the treated   trial    are  provided, said means comprising at least one aspirator  communicating with the said collecting basin, and having  the function of removing the rinsing liquid left on  the surfaces   ofthe    treated material after the said  evacuation of the mass of the rinsing liquid itself.      the    apparatus according to any preceding claim,  characterized in that ploughshare elements are  provided on the inside peripheral wall of the said  tank, said elements being adjustable or fixed, and  having the function of directing the material to be  treated towards the central working area of the  said stirring means.   10. the apparatus according to any preceding claim,  characterized in that the said closing hatch door of  the said   openngfor    the exit of treated material from  the tank is provided with a lower sharp edge enabling  it to cut away, during its descent, any residual  amount of treated material which would result in a  non perfect seal of the exit.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
