<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0011962
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800611
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B65G-15/02 B65G-15/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
a belt conveyor with a curved travel path.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
portec ukgb<sep>portec (u.k.) limited<sep>portec (u.k.) limitedvauxhall industrial estate ruebon wrexham clwyd., walesgb<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
davies george gb<sep>twigg christopher james stewartgb<sep>davies, george<sep>twigg, christopher james stewart<sep>davies, george73, berwyn viewellesmere, salopgb<sep>twigg, christopher james stewart77, oaklands roadchirck bank chirk, clwyd., north walesgb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
the belt conveyor has an endless belt with an upper run  10 which extends around a flat, part-circular bend or a helical  path, and a lower run 11 which extends below the upper run,  and end deflection rollers 12, 13 which each comprise two or  more coaxial, constant-diameter cylindrical portions 40 of  equal diameter which are rotatable at mutually different  speeds to accommodate the different peripheral speeds  across the belt substantially without slip between the belt and  rollers.  drive means may comprise a chain 16 attached to the  radially outer edge of the belt and a drive sprocket 30, the  chain being constrained to maintain its curved path to prevent  the belt moving radially inwardly.  the diameter of the end  deflection rollers is independent of the curvature or width of  the conveyor path.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
a belt conveyor with a curved travel patb this invention relates to a belt conveyor having an endless conveyor belt with a path of travel which is curved relative to a generally vertical axis, for conveying objects around a flat bend or along a helical path. known belt conveyors having such curved paths of travel employ conically tapered rollers at the end regions where the belt is deflected upwards or downwards between the upper and lower runs of the endless belt, the larger diameter portions of the conically tapered deflection rollers contacting radially outer portions of the belt thereby to accommodate the higher peripheral speeds of the belt at its radially outer regions compared with the peripheral speeds at radially inner regions of the belt. there is also a known belt conveyor having a curved path of travel around a flat bend with parallel end rollers, i.e. end rollers of constant diameter, but the end rollers are each in one piece and hence there is slip between the rollers and the belt, the slip being progressively greataat points located progessively farther inwards and outwards from the neutral point, at about the mid-point of the width of the belt, across the belt in directions radially of the bend, i.e. generally axially of the rollers. according to the present invention there is provided a belt conveyor having a curved path of travel, comprising an endless conveyor belt having an upper run for conveying objects, which follows a generally horizontal generating line rotating about a generally vertical axis, and a lower run which extends below the upper run, deflection rollers arranged to guide the belt at regions of upward or downward deflection of the path of the belt, drive means for driving the belt and means for constraining the belt to maintain its curved path, at least one of the deflection rollers comprising two or more coaxial, constant-diameter cylindrical portions of equal diameter which are rotatable at mutually different speeds. the upper run of the belt may be arranged to extend around a flat, part-circular bend, the arcuate conveying surface lying in a horizontal plane, or the upper run of the belt may be arranged to extend helically relative to the generally vertical axis, for conveying objects between upper and lower axially spaced locations. advantageously, in either the flat or helical belt configurations, one or each of the deflection rollers at the beginning and at the end of the upper run of the belt, for guiding the belt between the upper and lower runs, comprises a plurality of coaxial, constant-diamater cylindrical portions of equal diameter which are rotatable at mutually different speeds. such end deflection rollers may for example comprise a plurality of cylindrical roller portions arranged freely rotatably on a shaft; the roller portions are preferably made of low-friction plastics material. the roller portions may lie directly next to each other; alternatively, it would be possible to have spacers between adjacent roller portions. in another embodiment of the invention, a deflection roller
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims   1. a belt conveyor having a curved path of travel, comprising an endless conveyor belt having an upper run for conveying objects, which follows a generally horizontal generating line rotating about a generally vertical axis, and a lower run which extends below the upper run, deflection rollers arranged to guide the belt at regions of upward or   downward    deflection of the path of the belt, drive means for driving the belt and means for constraining the belt to maintain its curved path, at least one of the deflection rollers comprising two or more coaxial, constant-diameter cylindrical portions of equal diameter which are rotatable at mutually different speeds.   2. a belt conveyor as claimed in claim 1, in which one or each of the deflection rollers at the beginning and at the end of the upper run of the belt, for guiding the belt between the upper and lower runs, comprises a plurality of coaxial, constant-diameter cylindrical portions of equal diameter which are rotatable at mutually different speeds.   3. a belt conveyor as claimed in claim 1, in which there is a deflection roller constituting a belt tensioning roller comprises a plurality of coaxial, constant-diameter cylindrical portions of equal diameter which are rotatable at mutually different speeds, the tensioning roller being mounted for bodily displacement in directions perpendicular to the belt, for varying the belt path thereby to tension the belt.      4.    a belt conveyor as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3, in which the or each deflection roller comprises a plurality of cylindrical roller portions arranged freely rotatably on a shaft.   5. a belt conveyor as claimed in claim 4, in which there are at least five cylindrical roller portions in the or each deflection roller and preferably ten or more such roller portions.   6. a belt conveyor as claimed in claim 4 or claim 5, in which the cylindrical roller portions are   madeof    low-friction  plastics material.   7. a belt conveyor as claimed in any one of claims 4 to 6, in which the cylindrical roller portions lie directly adjacent   each    other with no spacers therebetween.   8. a belt conveyor as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 7, in which the upper run of the belt is adapted to extend around a flat, part-circular bend, with the arcuate conveying surface lying in a horizontal plane.   9. a belt conveyor as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 7, in which the upper run of the belt is adapted to extend helically relative to the generally vertical axis, for conveying objects between upper and lower   axiallyzpaced    locations.   10. a belt conveyor as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, in which the drive means for the belt comprises an endless chain connected to the radially outer edge of the belt, and a drive sprocket for driving the chain, the chain running along a guide which constrains it and the belt from moving radially inwardly.    11. a belt conveyor as claimed in claim 9 when dependant on claim 2, in which the drive sprocket is mounted fast on the shaft on which the cylindrical portions of one of the end deflection rollers are freely rotatably mounted, the shaft being driven by a drive motor and the diameter of the cylindrical portions making up the deflection roller are approximately equal to the pitch circle diameter of the drive sprocket.   12. a belt conveyor as claimed in claim 10, in which respective drive sprockets are provided on each of the shafts of the deflection rollers at each end of the upper run of the belt whereby the belt can be driven in either direction as required with the appropriate one of the drive sprockets operative so as to drive the belt at the downstream end of the upper run of the belt.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
