<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0015553
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800917
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B41J-29/42 B41J-11/46 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
method and apparatus for determining the position of the printing medium in a high speed printer.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
vydec incus<sep>vydec, inc.<sep>vydec, inc.9 vreeland roadflorham park new jersey 07932us<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
pedersen egon aus<sep>peerboom reneus<sep>tilton dennis a us <sep>pedersen, egon a.<sep>peerboom, rene<sep>tilton, dennis a.<sep>pedersen, egon a.47 bella vistadiablo california 94528us<sep>peerboom, rene19 brookside roadedison new jersey 08817us<sep>tilton, dennis a.4654 stratford avenuefreemont california 94538us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a high-speed printer (10) includes a rotatable platen  (11) and a movable print carriage (18).  the carriage in­ cludes a light-emitting diode (24) and a photo-detector (26)  which scan the platen, as the carriage moves, looking for  the edge of the paper.  the light is transmitted to and from  the platen by a pair of optical fiber bundles (32, 33) which  are randomly interspersed at their forward end to produce  a third optical fiber bundle (34).  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
method and apparatus for determining the position of the printing medium in a high speed printer the invention relates to a method and an apparatus for determining the position of the printing medium ill a high speed printer. igh-speed printers are widely used in industry for such diverse applications as output devices for data-processing systems, stand-alone word-processing terminals, or interactive terminals for time-sharing systems. increasingly, such printers are called upon to operate in an automatic or semi-automatic mode, that is to say, with only occasional intervention fro a human operator. for such automatic or semi-automatic operation to be completely reliable it is, of course, necessary for the printer to determine whether or not the printing medium to be used, typically a sheet of paper, has been properly fed into the printer or, if properly fed at the beginning of the print cycle, has not subsequently gone askew. if, as is often the case, the printer is typing information onto a pre-printed form, it is also important to accurately register the beginning of each print cycle with the preprinted regions of the form. heretofore, the only way to resolve these problems was to use a printer having a tractor-feed platen and sprocketed, fan-fold paper. unfortunately, this has not proven to be a satisfactory solution to the problem as the paper must subsequently be separated into individual sheets and the perforated egdes removed, all of which adds to the costs of the operation. further, the requirement that the paperusedmust be sprocketed greatly reduces the flexibility of the printer as any special paper or letterhead which a customer may wish to use is not compatible with the system and hence cannot be used. then too, use of sprocketed paper does not necessarily guarantee proper vertikal alignment as the operator may feed the paper into the machine incorrectly from the outset. what is clearly needed is a method and an apparatus for rapidly and accurately determining the position of the paper in the printer relative to the print head carriage. advantageously, the method should not be tied to the use of any particular form of paper, nor should the method be restricted to any particular type of printer. the above and other objectives are attained in the instant invention which comprises an apparatus for detecting at least one of the edges of a printing medium which is positioned proximate the platen of a printer, the printing medium and platen having differing co-efficients of reflection to incident radiant energy. the apparatus comprises means for directing a beam of radiant energy towards the platen and means for detecting any of the beam of radiant energy as is reflected off either the platen or the printing medium. the apparatus also includes means for inducing relative motion between the platen and the beam directing and beam detecting means and n;eans, responsive to the output of the beam detecting means for terminating the relative motion whenever a significant transition is detected in the output from the beam detecting means.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims:    1. apparatus for detecting at least one of the  edges of a printing medium (12) which is positioned  proximate the platen (11) of a printer (10), said  printing medium and platen having differing co-effi  cients of reflection to incident radiant energy,  characterized by  means (24) for directing a beam (27) of radiant ener  gy towards said platen (11);  means (26) for detecting any of said beam (27) of  radiant energy as is reflected off either said platen  (11) or said printing medium (12);  means (23) for inducing relative motion between said  platen   (11)    and said beam directing and beam detec   ting    means (24, 26); and  means (28), responsive to the output of said beam de  tecting means   (26),for    terminating said relative mo  tion whenever a significant transition is detected in  said output.    2. apparatus according to claim 1, where in said  radiant energy falls within the optical spectrum.     3. apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said radiant energy falls within the infra-red portion of the optical spectrum.   4. apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said radiant energy falls within the visible portion of the optical spectrum.   5. apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said platen (11) is restrained from lateral motion, said motion inducing means comprises a movable carriage (18) which travels along a path parallel to the axis of said platen, and the apparatus further is characterized by means (31), mounted to said carriage (18), for supporting said beam directing means (24) and said beam detecting means (26) in proximity to said platen.   6. apparatus according to claim 5, wherein said beam directing means comprises a source (24) of a beam of light and said beam detecting means (26) comprises a photo-detector.   7. apparatus according to claim 5, wherein said beam directing means comprises a source (24) of a beam of light and first optical fiber means (32), optically coupled at one end to said light beam source, said supporting means (31) positioning the other end of the said optical fiber means (32) proximate said platen (11), said beam detecting means comprising a photo-detector (26) and second optical  fiber means (33), optically coupled at one end to said photo-detector, said supporting means (31) positioning the other end of the said optical fiber means (32) proximate said platen.   8. apparatus according to claim 7, wherein said first and second optical fiber means respectively comprise first and second optical fiber bundles (32, 33), the ends of the fibers which are respectively remote from said light beam source (24) and said photo-detector (26) being randomly intermingled to form a third optical fiber bundle (34) which is positioned proximate said platen (11).   9. apparatus according to claim 1, further including means (13) for selectively rotating said platen (11), said motion terminating means including means, operative only in the absence of said relative motion, for activating said platen rotating means (13) and for subsequently terminating the same whenever a significant transition is detected in said output.   10. apparatus for locating the upper left hand corner of a generally rectangular printing medium (12) in a printer (10), said medium being positioned proximate a rotatable printing platen (11), the printer including a movable print carriage (18) with a source (24) of a light beam and a photo-detector (26) mounted thereto, said method being characterized by the steps of   (a) moving said carriage (18) to its extreme left hand position; (b) moving said carriage (18) to the right while scanning the platen (11) until the left hand edge of said medium (12) is detected; and then (c) rotating said platen (11) in the reverse direction while scanning said medium (12) until the top edge of said medium is detected whereby the upper left hand corner of said medium is determined.   11. method according to claim 10, wherein, if in step (b) above the carriage (18) moves to the extreme right hand position without detecting the left hand edge of said medium (12), the method comprises the further steps of (d) moving said carriage (18) to the middle of the platen (11) and (e) rotating said platen (11) in the forward direction while scanning said platen for a predetermined period or until the top edge of the medium (12) is detected; then (f) if the top edge of the medium (12) is detected, moving said carriage (18) to the left while scanning said medium until the left hand edge of the medium is detected whereby the upper left hand corner of the medium is determined.   12. method according to claim 11, wherein if the top edge of the medium is not detected in step (e) above, the method comprises the further steps of   (g) moving said carriage (18) to the left while scanning said platen (11) to detect the right hand edge of said medium (12); (h) if the right hand edge of the medium is detected, continuing to move said carriage (18) to the left while scanning said medium to detect the left hand edge of said medium (12); and then (i) repeating step (c) above.    13. method according to claim 12, wherein, if the right hand edge of the medium is not detected in step (g) above before the left hand step is reached, the method comprises the further steps of (j) moving said carriage (18) to the right while scanning said platen (11) until the left hand edge of said medium (12) is detected; and then (k) repeating step (c) above.   14. method according to claim 13; wherein, if the left hand edge of the medium (12) is not detected in step (j) above, the method comprises the further step of (1) providing an indicator to summon an operator.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
