<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0010241
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800430
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
G02B-7/32 G01C-3/08 G01B-11/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
distance sensing apparatus
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
sick optik elektronik erwinde<sep>erwin±sick gmbh optik-elektronik<sep>erwin sick gmbh optik-elektroniksebastian-kneipp-strasse 1d-79183 waldkirch de<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
erdmann juergen de <sep>fetzer guenterde<sep>erdmann, juergen<sep>fetzer, gunter<sep>erdmann, jürgeneisenbahnstrasse 35d-7808 waldkirchde<sep>fetzer, güntergewerbestrasse 43d-7803 gundelfingende<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
distance sensing apparatus for determining the distance to an illuminated surface features an objective, for forming an image of the illuminated surface, and first and second photo-electric converters respectively disposed at first and second image planes respectively corresponding to first and second object planes equivalent to maximum and minimum possible distances of the illuminated surface from the apparatus.  the arrangement is such that the light falling on the first and second photo-electric converters depends on the location of the illuminated surface between the maximum and minimum possible distances.  electronic processing circuitry is able to uniquely define this location from the outputs of the two photoelectric converters.  the illuminated surface is preferably illuminated from a light source contained within the distance sensing apparatus and which uses the central portion of the objective lens to form a parallel illuminating beam.  a mirror can conveniently be positioned between the first and second image planes to increase the effective distance therebetween, which results in a more compact construction.  the processing circuitry conveniently includes either a difference forming stage or a quotient forming stage which respectively enable either a qualitative or quantitative determination of the location of the illuminated surface. 
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
distance sensing apparatus the invention relates to a distance sensing apparatus for determining the distance of an illuminated surface from the apparatus and has particular reference to a distance sensing apparatus based on lens and photoelectric converter means. distance sensing apparatus of this kind is for example required in automatic monitoring, regulation or control installations. possible applications are.the monitoring of the heights of' stacks and filling levels, the monitoring of the presence or absence of an object, the control of the sag of a band or the like, or the detection of the thickness of a material. many of these tasks are carried out using mechanical distance sensors or boundary detection probes. the required mechanical contact with the material whose position is to be detected and also the limited speed of operation of these mechanical sensors is often very obstructive and in many cases prohibits the use of such sensors. distance sensors which operate on inductive or capacitive principles are also already known but are however dependent on the characteristics of the material and are therefore not suitable for use in many situations. distance sensors based on optical and electronic principles are also known which are able.to recognize the presence of objects within smaller or larger ranges. sensors of this kind have however the disadvantage that they are strongly dependent on the surface of the material to be sensed and in particular from the reflective capability or characteristics of the surface. an object of good reflectivity will for example be recognized at a greater distance than an object with a lesser degree of reflectivity. poorly reflecting objects are amongst other things, and in comparison with obstacles of good or better reflectivity, simply not recognized. the range within which monitoring can take place is moreover relatively small. this also holds true for so-called v-light barriers in which the axes of transmission and reception intersect at a specified angle. these light barriers do have a defined recognition range,the size of which depends on the angle of the two optical axes to one another and their cross-section at right angles to the optical axis, there is however a direct relationship between the size of the recognition range and the tolerance or inaccuracy which depends on the degree of reflectivity of the object in contrast to these previous solutions the principal object underlying the present invention is to provide distance sensing apparatus based on optical and electronic principles and which delivers a pronouncement on the position of a surface within a specified sensing range from the distance sensing apparatus substantially independently of the characteristics of the surface. a further object underlying the present invention is to provide an apparatus of good performance but which is of simple and cost effective construction and which is also very reliable in operation. for accomplishing these objects there is provided., in accordance with the present invention, distance sensing apparatus for determining the distance of an illuminated surface from the apparatus said apparatus comprising lens means for forming an
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
we claim:   1. distance sensing apparatus (28) for determining the distance  of an illuminated surface (27) from the apparatus,said  apparatus comprising lens means   (2o    for forming an image  of said illuminated surface and photoelectric detection  means the apparatus being characterized by first and second  photoelectric converters (14, 15) respectively disposed at  first and second image planes (11', 12') of said lens means,  said first and second image planes (11', 12') respectively  corresponding to first and second object planes (11, 12)  equivalent to near and remote possible locations of said  illuminated surface from the apparatus, whereby the light  falling on the first and second photoelectric converters  (14, 15) depends on the location of the illuminated surface,  and by processing means (16,  17) for processing the output  signals from said first and second photoelectric converters  (14, 15) to produce a single output signal (17) representative  of the distance of said illuminated surface (27) from the  apparatus (28).   2. distance sensing apparatus in accordance with claim 1    and    characterized in that said near and remote locations  correspond to maximum and minimum possible distances  (11, 12) for the position of said illuminated surface from  the apparatus.   3. distance sensing apparatus in accordance with either of the  preceding claims and characterized in that said processing  means (16, 17) comprises a difference forming stage (18)  for producing a signal representative of the difference  between the outputs of said first and second photoelectric  detectors (14, 15) and a display device (17) (fig. 3)  connected to said difference forming stage (16) for dis  playing said difference signal.     4. distance sensing apparatus in accordance with any preceding  claim and characterized in that the display device (17)  (fig. 3) solely indicates whether the difference signal  is zero or smaller or larger than zero.   5. distance sensing apparatus in accordance with either of  claims 1 or 2 and characterized in that said processing  circuit (16, 17) comprises a quotient forming stage (19)  for forming a quotient signal representative of the  quotients of the outputs of said first and second photo  electric converters (14, 15) and a display device (17)  (fig. 4) for displaying said quotient signal.   6. a distance sensing apparatus according to claim 5 and  characterized in that the quotient signal display device  (17) (fig. 4) is calibrated to show the location of the  illuminated surface with reference to a reference plane.   7. distance sensing apparatus in accordance with any one of the  preceding claims and characterized in that said lens means  (20) comprises an objective.    8. distance sensing apparatus in accordance with any one of the  preceding claims and characterized in that there is further  provided a central aperture stop (22) for restricting the  usable aperture of said lens means (20) to a marginal region  thereof.   9. distance sensing apparatus in accordance with claim 8 and  characterized in that said aperture stop (22) is arranged  on the image side of said lens means (20).   10. distance sensing apparatus in accordance with claim 9 and  characterized in that said aperture stop (20) is at a distance    ("a')    from said lens means so that said first and second    photoelectric converters receive substantially the same  quantities of light from their associated first and second  object planes when the same surface with the same  illumination is located at those object planes.   11. distance sensing apparatus in accordance with any one of  the preceding claims and characterized in that the one  (12') of said first and second image planes   (11 t t    12')  which lies closest to the lens means (20) is moved    towards,the    lens means (20) by means of a mirror (21)  sized and positioned so as not to interrupt the ray path  to the other (11') of said first and second image planes  (11', 12') when said illuminated surface is located at the  corresponding one (11) of said first and second object  planes (11, 12).   12. distance sensing apparatus in accordance with claim 11  and characterized in that said mirror (21) comprises a  plane mirror.    13. distance sensing apparatus according to any one of claims  8 to 12 and characterized in that said aperture stop (22)  is provided with a central opening (23) and a light source  (25) is arranged behind said central opening.   14. distance sensing apparatus in accordance with claim 13 and  characterized in that a further lens (24) is located  within said central opening and cooperates with said lens  means   (20).    to form the light (26) leaving said light source  (25) into a parallel light beam for illuminating said  surface (27).   15. distance sensing apparatus in accordance with any one of  the preceding claims and characterized in that at least  one of said first and second photoelectric converters(14, 15)  is disposed on the optical axis (13) of said lens (20).  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
