<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0013134
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800709
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
G01F-1/10 G01F-1/05 B67D-1/00 B67D-1/08 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
liquid flow metering device.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
computa bar pty ltdau <sep>computa-bar pty. ltd<sep>computa-bar pty. ltd cnr wilson &amp; symonds streets royal park, south australia 5014au<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
bonnin richard mayoau<sep>bonnin, richard mayo<sep>bonnin, richard mayo641 pacific highwaychatswood, new south wales 2067au<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a device for metering liquid flow in a dispensing line (3)  for a gas-pressured beverage comprising a flowmeter (1) with  electrical contacts (a) pulsing as an indication of fluid flow in  said line, an electrical impulse generator (5), an impulse  counter (6) having multiple outputs corresponding to differ­ ent counts in the counter, and an electronic calculator (4) with  a preset calibrated value stored in its memory and electrically  connected to said outputs for activation of respective ones of  its functions, said contacts (a) being serially located in that  one of the connections assigned to an addition function of  said calculator (4) whereby with each pulse of said contacts  (a) the total value displayed by said calculator (4) is increased  by the value stored in said memory, and the maximum signal  input response rate of said calculator (4) exceeds the pulsing  rate of said contacts indicative of a flow of fluid with a gas  content below a predetermined level and is less than the  pulsing rate of said contacts (a) indicative of a flow of fluid  whose gas content is above said level.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
liquid flow metering device this invention relates to metering devices for liquids and more particularly to such devices which respond to the flow of the liquid as opposed to the volume after dispensing; one such device is incorporated in petrol pump dispensers and comprises a rotatable turbine in the petrol dispensing line. either directly, or magnetically, coupled counters respond to the rotation to calculate the volume and value of petrol passing through the line for dispensing. thcse turbinc-type mctcrinq devices, however, are unsuitable 1.-or use with the dispensing of carbonated and/or pressurised beverages, such as beer. it frequently occurs that these dispensing lnes contains only, or a large quantity of, froth which, while operating thc' lurbinc, i is undesirable to be included in the mitered volume. on licensed premises employing staff for the dis pensing of beer on tap it has been found necessary to exer cise supervision to ensure that the quantity dispensed during a period of trading corresponds to the money deposited in cash registers. flowmeter systems have been associated with the beer lines to the taps but hitherto the dispensed quan tities recorded have been far from accurate due to the occurrence of froth and gas in the lines frequently during trading, for example when kegs are replaced or gas pressures are incorrectly adjusted. it is the main object of the invention to provi de a liquid-flow metering device which is efficient and accurate in operation even in the dispensing of carbonated and/or pressurised beverages. according to the invention there is provided a liquid-flow metering device comprising a flowmeter for indicating externally of a dispensing line a liquid flow therein, an electrical impulse generator, and an electrical impulse counter driven by impulses from said generator, a fluid volume calculator, and driver means responding to said flowmeter to control the operation of said calculator, the latter having a maximum input signal rate to permit response only to signals indicative of fluid flow below a predetermined rate. the invention will be better understood with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which: fig. 1 shows a schematic diagram of the metering device of the invention; figs. 2a and 2b are a plan and a sectional view of a flowmeter utilized with the device; fig. 3 is a perspective view of the calculator housing of the device; and fig. 4 is an end elevation of said housing with tile battery compartiment door open. a preferred embodiment of the invention will now be described wherein the fluid-flow melerirlk3 device is utilized for the dispensing of beer with automatic indication of the quani ty of beer dispensed for each pulliny operation. reference is now made to fig. 1 showing schematically the electrical construction of the device. any form of flowmeter 1 may be provided and preferably incorporates electrical contacts a actuated by a rotatable ceramic magnet 2, within the beer dispensing line 3 responding to the flow of beer there-through. under normal circumstances where the dispensing line 3 is connected to a beer
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims  liquid flow metering device  1. a liquid-flow metering device comprising a flow meter (1) for indicating externally of a dispensing line (3) a liquid flow therein, and being characterized by an electrical impulse generator (5), and an electrical impulse counter (6) driven by impulses from said generator, a fluid volume calculator (4), and driver means (7) responding to said flowmeter to control the operation of said calculator, the latter having a maximum input signal rate to permit response only to   si(jnals    indicative of fluid   tlow    below   a predetermined rate.       2. a liquid-flow metering   devic:    according to   claim 1, characterized in that said driver means has three      sections      pr(ividiiic;      oulpul    signals lor   activating    respectively a display clear function, a memory recall function, and an addition function for said calculator.    3. a liquid-flow metering device according to claim 2, characterized in that said fluid volume calculator is an electronic calculator, and said impulse counter is a recycling counter arrested by an inhibiting circuit at a predetermined count to provide at an output a control signal for the driver means for activating the addition function of said calculator.    4. a liquid-flow metering device according to claim 3, characterized in that said flowmeter includes electrical contacts (a) repeatedly operated to indicate said liquid flow, and said contacts repeatedly apply said output signal corresponding to said addition function to increase by the same amount with each repetition the total displayed by the calculator.    5. a liquid-flow metering device according to claim 4, characterized in that said same amount corresponds to the value stored in the calculator's memory and being indicative of a metered quantity of liquid dispensed.    6. a liquid-flow metering device according to claim 3, 4 or 5, characterized in that said impulse counter has a reset provision which when operated causes said counter to recycle, and wherein sequential outputs of said counter  cause activation in turn of the calculator's display clear function.    7. a liquid-flow metering device according to any one of the preceding claims characterized in that said calculator is housed within a securable tamper-proof case (18).    8. a liquid-flow metering device according to claim 7, characterized in that said calculator's case has two key locks (19 and 27) whereby two manually operable keys (20 and 28) facilitate respectively resetting of said counter and access to said calculator.    9. a liquid-flow metering device according to   .iny    one   ol      tile    preceding   clkiims,    characterized in that said   i cwme ter    comprises   a    rrotatable impelle (1a)   driven    by fluid flow in said   dispensincj    line and   clurryin    a permanent magnet (2) for   operation    intermittently of   electrical    contacts   cxtcrnal    of said dispensing linc.    10. a device for metering liquid flow in a dispensing line (3) of a gas-pressured beverage having a gas content below a predetermined level, comprising a flowmeter (1) with electrical contacts (a) pulsing as an indication of fluid flow in said line, and being characterized by an electrical impulse generator (5), a recycling counter (6)for impulses from said generator having multiple sequential outputs ("1", "3", "5" and "7") corresponding to different counts in the counter, a count inhibit circuit activated from the output ("7") corresponding to maximum count and a reset circuit (reset) for deactivating said inhibit circuit, and an electronic calculator (4) with a preset calibrated value stored in its memory and electrically connected to said outputs for activation of respective ones of its functions,   said contacts being serially located in that one of the connections assigned to an addition function of said calculator whereby with each pulse of said contacts the total value displayed by said calculator is increased by the value stored in said memory, and the maximum signal input response rate of said calculator exceeds the pulsing rate of said contacts indicative of a flow of liquid with a gas content below said predetermined level and is less than the pulsing rate of said contacts indicative of a flow of fluid whose  gas content is above said level.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
