<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0011170
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800528
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B41J-2/155 B41J-2/145 <main>B41J-3/04</main> B41J-2/02 B41J-2/015 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
liquid droplet forming apparatus.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
ibmus<sep>international business machines corporation <sep>international business machines corporationold orchard roadarmonk, n.y. 10504us   <sep>international business machines corporation<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
fillmore gary lee<sep>hoffman arthur rowland<sep>krause konrad artur<sep>young thomas<sep>fillmore, gary lee<sep>hoffman, arthur rowland<sep>krause, konrad artur<sep>young, thomas<sep>fillmore, gary lee5012 homes placeboulder, colorado 80303us<sep>hoffman, arthur rowland7676 n. 95thlongmont, colorado 80501us<sep>krause, konrad artur870 e. el camino realmt. view, california 94040us<sep>young, thomas1489 johnson ct.boulder, colorado 80303us<sep>fillmore, gary lee <sep>hoffman, arthur rowland<sep>krause, konrad artur  <sep>young, thomas<sep>fillmore, gary lee5012 homes placeboulder, colorado 80303us<sep>hoffman, arthur rowland7676 n. 95thlongmont, colorado 80501us<sep>krause, konrad artur870 e. el camino realmt. view, california 94040us<sep>young, thomas1489 johnson ct.boulder, colorado 80303us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
an ink jet head 10 has coaxially disposed inner and outer  cylindircal tube 11, 12 with the outer cylindrical surface 23 of  the inner cylindrical tube spaced from the inner cylindrical  surface 22 of the outer cylindrical tube to form an ink cavity  24 therebetween from which ink is supplied through one or  more arrays of ink jet nozzles 35.  only the outer tube is a  piezoelectric material so that the outer tube vibrates radially  when electrically excited to produce vibrations in  the ink in  the ink cavity whereby a stream of ink droplets is supplied  from each of the ink jet nozzles.  in embodiments having only  multiple arrays of ink jet nozzles, if desired, only the inner  cylindrical tube or both the inner and outer cylindrical tubes  can be formed of a piezoelectric material.  if both of the tubes  are formed of a piezoelectric material, the operating frequen­ cies, which are preferably resonant, of the two tubes must  then be matched.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
liquid droplet forming apparatus the invention relates to apparatus for forming liquid droplets and is more particularly concerned with such apparatus for producing a plurality of similar streams of liquid droplets. such apparatus is used in ink jet printers. when a plurality of ink jet nozzles is connected to an ink cavity, it is desired that the ink droplets produced from the streams passing through each of the nozzles have substantially the same break-off point, have substantially uniform spacing between the droplets, and be satellite free. this ensures that the quality of the print from each of the nozzles will be substantially the same. to obtain this uniform between the droplets of the various streams, it is necessary that the perturbations applied to each of the ink streams of the nozzles be substantially uniform and that the nozzles be of uniform quality. furthermore, for the production of the droplets to be satellite free, the perturbations must be sufficiently large. it also is a requisite for the perturbations to not onlyte-siibstantia11y uniform but to be reprodicthmftthrogh----- out the time that the droplets are being produced. it is also necessary that the transducer or driver, which produces the vibrations to create the perturbations in the ink streams, be capable of producing the droplets at the desired frequency. this is determined by the overall requirements of the ink jet system including the size of the droplets, the sapcing between the droplets on the medium on which the droplets are impinged, the rate at which the droplets can be charged, and the rate of relative movement between the medium and the nozzles. thus, the transducer or driver must be capable of operating at a specific frequency. the invention provides apparatus for producing a plurality of similar streams of liquid droplets, said apparatus comprising an elongated chamber formed between two elongated, similar shaped, opposed surfaces on two component parts, said chamber being filled with liquid, in use, one of said component parts having an aperture or apertures therethrough providing or communicating with an elongated array of liquid jet nozzles, each nozzle having its axis perpendicular to the length of the chamber, said one or the other or both of the component parts being formed of piezoelectric material, means through which liquid under pressure can be supplied in use from a pressure liquid source to the nozzles to cause liquid jets to issue therefrom, and electrically energisable means effective when energized to subject the piezoelectric material to an electric field having a periodically fluctuating magnitude such that the separation of the said two surfaces fluctuates periodically in a direction perpendicular to the length of the chamber thereby causing periodic pressure waves in the liquid in the chamber and causing the jets to break up into similar streams of liquid droplets. the invention also provides apparatus for producing a plurglity-of similar s.tr-eams¯of ink droplets ine ing an¯ ¯ ink jet head comprising outer means having an inner cylindrical surface; an inner. cylindrical tube disposed within the inner
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims   1. apparatus for producing a plurality of similar streams of   liquid.droplets,    said apparatus comprising an elongated chamber formed between two elongated, similar shaped, opposed surfaces on two component parts, said chamber being filled with liquid, in use, one of said component parts having an aperture or apertures therethrough providing or communicating with an elongated array of liquid jet nozzles, each nozzle having its axis perpendicular to the length of the chamber, said one or the other or both of the component parts being formed of piezoelectric   material means.through    which liquid under pressure can be supplied in use from a pressure liquid source to the nozzles to cause liquid jets to issue therefrom,  and electrically energisable means effective when energised to subject the piezoelectric material to an electric field having a periodically fluctuating magnitude such that the separation of the said two surfaces fluctuates periodically in a direction perpendicular to the length of the chamber thereby causing periodic pressure waves in the liquid in the chamber and causing the jet to break-up into similar streams of liquid droplets.   2. apparatus as claimed in claim 1, in which said other component part comprises an elongated tubular element mounted within a hollow housing providing or comprised in said one component part, said housing having a curved internal surface opposed to the outer surface of the tubular element so that said chamber is of annular or part annular   cross-section.      3. apparatus as claimed in claim 2, in which said tubular member is formed of piezoelectric material and the construction and arrangement is such that it undergoes it principle piezo-electric dimensional changes radially when subject to the electric field.     4. apparatus as claimed in claim 2 or 3, in   which    the housing comprises a cylindrical cavity within   which    the tubular member is mounted with its axis coincident   wibh      ol    parallel to the axis of the cavity, and in which the housing is formed of piezo-electric material, the construction and arrangement being such that the housing undergoes its principle piezoelectric dimensional changes radially of the cylindrical cavity.   5. apparatus as claimed in claim 2, 3 or 4, in which the housing is provided by a cylindrical tube 6. apparatus as claimed in claim 2, 3 or 4, in which the housing comprises a hollow rectangular, parallelepiped shaped block, the four sides of the block being apertured and the four apertures being aligned with four nozzle plates, each plate having an array of nogzles therethrough.      7.    apparatus for producing a plurality of similar streams of ink droplets including an ink jet head comprising outer means having an inner cylindrical surface; an inner cylindrical tube disposed within the inner cylindrical surface of said outer means and having its outer cylindrical surface spaced from the inner cylindrical surface of said outer means, said inner cylindrical tube having its longitudinal axis substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis of the inner cylindrical surface of said outer means or coaxial therewith; an ink cavity formed between the outer cylindrical surface of said inner cylindrical tube and the inner cylindrical surface of said outer means and having pressurized ink therein;  a plurality of arrays of ink jet nozzles communicating through said outer means with said ink cavity and from which the streams of ink droplets are supplied, said plurality of arrays of ink jet nozzles being spaced from each other about the periphery of said outer means; each of  said ink jet nozzles having its axis substantially perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of said inner cylindrical   tube; 'and    at least one of said inner cylindrical tube and said outer means being formed of a piezoelectric material and vibrating radially when electrically excited to produce vibrations within the ink in said ink cavity so that a stream of ink droplets is supplied from each of said ink jet nozzles.   8. apparatus for producing a plurality of similar streams of ink droplets including an ink jet head comprising outer means having an inner cylindrical surface; an inner cylindrical tube disposed within the inner cylindrical surface of said outer means and having its outer cylindrical surface spaced from the inner cylindrical surface of said outer means, said inner cylindrical tube having its longitudinal axis   substantially    parallel to the longitudinal axis of the inner cylindrical surface of said outer means or coaxial therewith; an ink cavity formed between the outer cylindrical surface of said inner cylindrical tube and the inner cylindrical surface of said outer means and having pressurized ink therein; a plurality of ink jet nozzles communicating through said outer means with said ink cavity and from which the streams of ink droplets are produced;  each of said ink jet nozzles having its axis substantially perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of said inner cylindrical tube; and only said outer means being formed of a piezoelectric material and vibrating radially when electrically excited to produce vibrations within the ink in the ink cavity so that a stream of ink droplets is supplied from any of said ink jet nozzles.   9. apparatus for producing a plurality of similar streams of ink droplets including an ink jet head comprising: inner  means and outer means spaced from each other, said inner means and said outer means having adjacent walls spaced from each other at a substantially constant distance; an ink cavity formed between the adjacent walls of said inner means and said outer means, said ink cavity having pressurized ink therein; a plurality of ink jet nozzles communicating through said outer means with said ink cavity and from which the streams of droplets are produced; and only said outer means being formed of a piezoelectric material and vibrating when electrically excited to produce vibrations within the ink in said ink cavity so that a stream of ink droplets is supplied from any of said ink jet nozzles.   10. apparatus for producing a plurality of similar streams of ink droplets including an ink jet head comprising outer component means having longitudinal passage therethrough providing an inner surface; an inner component-means disposed within said longitudinal passage in said outer component means, said inner component means having its outer surface of substantially the same shape as the inner surface of said outer component means, said inner component means having its outer surface spaced uniformly from the inner surface of said outer component means, said inner component means having the longitudinal axis of its outer surface substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis of the inner surface of said outer component means or coaxial therewith;   an ink cavity formed between the outer surface of said inner component means and the inner surface of said outer component means and having pressurized ink supplied thereto in use; a plurality of arrays of ink jet nozzles communicating through said outer component means with said ink cavity and from which the streams of ink droplets are supplied, said plurality of arrays being spaced from each other about the periphery of said outer component means; each of said ink jet nozzles   having its axis substantially perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the outer surface of said inner component means;   and one of said inner component means and said outer component means being formed of a piezoelectric material and vibrating radially when electrically excited to produce vibrations in the ink within said ink cavity so that a stream of ink droplets is supplied from each of said ink jet nozzles.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
