<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0005079
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19791031
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
H02P-3/12 H02P-3/06 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
an electric motor control circuit.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
rank organisation ltdgb   <sep>the rank organisation limited<sep>the rank organisation limited11 hill streetlondon w1x 8aegb<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
klimek norbert maxgb<sep>klimek, norbert max<sep>klimek, norbert max27 wilton roadcockfosters hertfordshiregb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a control circuit for an electric motor (11) for completing  a loop circuit (ii) for the current driven by the back e. m. f.   generated when the motor is de-energised but still turning,  in order to provide a braking effect on the motor.  the motor  is controlled to run incrementally by a motor control signal.  the control circuit includes a selectively conductive  shunt element (t₂) in the form of a transistor connected in  parallel with the motor, the transistor is controlled to conduct  or not by the motor control signal which holds the transistor  (t₂) in a non-conducting state when the motor is energised  so that during normal running of the motor all the drive  current passes through the motor (11), none passing through  the transistor (t₂) which only carries the current generated  by the back e. m. f.  when the motor is de-energised and the  shunt transistor (t₂) is biased to a conducting state.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
an electric motor control circuit the present invention relates to an electric motor control circuit adapted for controlling a direct current electric motor for incremental movement. in particular the invention relates to an electric motor control circuit incorporating a switching element t1 in series with the motor 11 for controlling its energisation, and a conductive element in parallel with the motor to provide a path for the current driven by the back e.m.f. generated when the motor 11 is de-energised but still turning whereby to provide a circuit for the back e.m.f. in order to brake the motor. in order to achieve incremental movement of an electric motor it is necessary to feed the motor with pulses of current the duration of which correspond to the time for which the motor is to be maintained in operation from which the distance moved can be determined if a load is constant or otherwise known. for certain uses, for example for controlling the line shift of an electrosensitive printer, it is required to drive an electric motor through relatively small increments of movement by fairly short pulses derived by controlling a switching element in series with the motor coil to conduct for short periods. one problem associated with such a system is the fact that the motor continues to turn after the signal ceases and the switching element is turned off, due to inertial effects. in order to reduce these it is known to employ the back e.m.f. generated by the motor when turning to generate a braking effect. however, in many applications the use of this back e.m.f. in generating a braking force for a drive motor is achieved by means of suitable electrical interruptors in order selectively to complete a circuit for the current driven by the back e.m.f. for some applications, however, such as for controlling the line shift of an electrostatic printer, it is required to provide the braking effect automatically as soon as the input signal ceases. a control circuit is known for achieving this economically in a small scale device. this control circuit comprises essentially a shunt resistor across the motor coil. in use the shunt resistor merely passes current while the motor is running, and when the motor is switched off it serves as a current path for the back e.m.f. in a closed loop with the motor coil without requiring any other switching connections than are already provided by the switching element which controls the current through the motor coil. this known circuit has the advantage ofsimplicity, but also has a number of disadvantages; for example, the current flowing through the shunt resistor while the motor is running represents a current loss and the heat generated by this current must be dissipated; in other words the system runs "hot". moreover, for the system to work well the shunt resistor must be of the same order of magnitude as the resistance of the motor coil, which means that the switching element which controls the operation
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:   1. an electric motor control circuit incorporating a switching element (t1) in series with the motor (11) for controlling its energisation, and a conductive element in parallel with the motor to provide a path for the current driven by the back e.m.f. generated when the motor   {ill)    is de-energised but still turning whereby to provide a circuit for the back e.m.f. in order to brake the motor, characterised in that the conductive element   (t2)    in parallel with the motor (11) is selectively conductive, and in that there are means   (r3,    r4, t3) for controlling the selectively conductive element (t2) to conduct only when the motor (ll)is de-energised.   2. an electric motor control circuit as claimed in claim 1, in which the switching element   (t1)    is a first transistor the base of which receives control signals determining periods of energisation of the motor (11).   3. an electric motor control circuit as claimed in claim 2, in which the selectively conductive element (t2) is a second transistor.   4. an electric motor control circuit as claimed in claim 3, in which the second transistor   (t2)    is connected in a circuit   (r3,    r4, t3) sensitive to the control signals and operative in response thereto to ground the base of the second transistor   (t2)    for the duration of a control signal whereby to prevent conduction during the running period of the motor (11).     5. an electric motor control circuit as claimed in claim 4, in which the circuit   (r3,    r4, t3) sensitive to the control signals includes a third transistor   (t3)    the base of which is connected to the base of the first transistor   (t1)    to receive control signals contemporaneously therewith.   6. an electric motor control circuit as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, in which the selectively conductive element is a controlled rectifier.   7. an electric motor control circuit as claimed in claim 6, in which there is a circuit sensitive to the occurrence of drive control signals operable to fire the controlled rectifier on the trailing edge of the drive control signals.    8. an electric motor control circuit as claimed in any preceding claim, in which there is provided a further circuit   (r6,    d1) in parallel with the motor (11), the said further circuit (r6, d1) being sensitive to the current flowing therein and operable to produce an output signal when the current in the motor (11) falls to zero after the end of a drive control signal to the switching element   ct1).      9. an electric motor control circuit as claimed in claim 8, in which the said further circuit   (r6,      d1)    for producing an output signal when the motor (11) stops turning includes a light emitting diode   (d1)    in parallel  with the motor (11) and a photo-transistor (t4) positioned to receive light emitted thereby.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
