<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0009521
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800416
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B65B-43/18 B65B-43/26 B65B-43/00 B65B-43/30 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
improvements in machines for applying bags or sacks to the discharge spouts of bag-filling machines.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
niccolls peter john<sep>niccolls, peter john<sep>niccolls, peter john15c martlesham heathipswich suffolkgb  <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
niccolls peter john<sep>niccolls, peter john<sep>niccolls, peter john15c martlesham heathipswich suffolkgb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a machine for applying a bag to the discharge spout (24)  of a bag-filling machine (25) comprises a suction pick-up  device (6) for lifting the top bag from a stack of flat bags (7) and  turning the bag into a vertical position with its mouth dis­ posed along one vertical edge of the bag, and a suction trans­ fer device (26) for engaging the bag held by the pick-up device,  swinging the bag from the pick-up device to the discharge  spout and, at the same time, opening the bag mouth so that it  slips over the spout.  the transfer device comprises opposed  suction fingers (31) which engage the bag, when held by the  pick-up device, adjacent the upper end of its mouth and are  pivotally mounted so as to be rockable apart, and opposed  auxiliary suction members (34) which are pivoted to arms (33)  rockably mounted on the pivot axes of the suction fingers and  which engage the bag adjacent the lower end of its mouth.   the suction fingers and auxiliary suction members are  together rockable apart to open the bag mouth and form the  open bag mouth into a particularly satisfactory configuration  for facilitating application to the discharge spout (24).  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
"improvements in machihtes for applying bags or sacks to the discharge spouts of bag filling machines". background of the invention the present invention relates to the machine for applying bags or sacks to the discharge spouts of bag filling machines. more particularly, the invention relates to bag applying machines having a suction transfer device for advancing a bag towards the discharge spout of a filling machine and comprising opposed suction means for engaging opposite sides of the bag adjacent its mouth, and means for parting said opposed suction means so as to open the bag mouth for placing over the discharge spout. the bags or sacks handled by the machines may be made from paper, pvc or other plastics material. united kingdom patent specification no.1439687 describes a bag applying machine comprising a suction pickup device which lifts a bag from a stack of flat bags and turns the bag from the horizontal position into a substantially vertical position, with its mouth disposed along one vertiral side edge of the bag, and a suction transfer device which engages the bag held by the pick-up device, advances the bag from the pick-up device into an upright rosition adjacent the discharge spout of a bag filling machine,, with the bag mouth uppermost, and opens t 8 bag mouth for placing over the discharge spout. the pick-up device comprises a pair of pick-up arms rockable about a horizontal axis and carrying suction cups for gripping a bag. the stack of bags to be fed to the machine is disposed to one side of the machine and the pick-up arms rock downr;ardly to engage the suction cups with the top bag in the stack. suction is thereupon applied to the cups so that they grip the bag and the arms are swung upwardly in a vertical arc to move the bag from the horizontal position, in which it is removed from the stack, into a substantially vertical position with its mouth disposed along one vertical side edge of the bag. in this position, the bag is gripped adjacent its mouth by the suction transfer device which comprises a pair of transfer arms pivoted on a horizontal axis ar right angles to the pivot axis of the pick-up device and having pairs of opposed suction cups for engaging opposite sides of the bag. suction is applied to the transfer suction cups, which grip the bag, and is removed from the pickup suction cups, which release the bag, and the transfer device then swings upwardly to remove the bag from the pick-up device and advance it to the discharge spout of the bag filling machine. at the same time, the transfer arms are moved apart so that the mouth of the bag is opened and placed over the discharge spout. with a transfer device as described in the aforementioned specification, and other knowntypes of transfer device, the open mouth of the bag is not formed to a satisfactory configuration for presentation to the discharge spout of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims   1. a machine for applying a bag or sack to the discharge spout (24) of a bag filling machine   (25.),    in which a transfer device (26) for advancing the bag to the discharge spout comprises opposed suction means (29) for engaging opposite sides of the bag adjacent its mouth, and means   (46-50)    for parting said opposed suction means so as tc open the bag mouth for placing over the discharge spout, characterised in that the suction means (29) comprises opposed main   suction mem-    bers (31) arranged to engage the bag adjacent one end of its mouth and pivotally mounted so as to be rockable apart to open the mouth of the bag,  and opposed auxilliary suction members (34) pivotally mounted coaxially with the pivot   ases    of the main suction members and arranged to engage the bag adjacent its mouth at positions spaced from said main suction members, said auxilliary suction members being rockable apart together with the main suction members to assist opening of the bag mouth.   2. a machine as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that the auxilliary suction members (34) are pivoted on arms (33) which are pivotally mounted coaxially with the main suction members,   lild    coupling means (36-40) connecto the main suction members (31) to the arms (3) so that said arms are rocked in response to rocking movement of the main suction members.   3. a   machine    as claimed in claim 1 or 2, characterised in that the suction members (31,34) are rockable by two fluid-operated cylinder and piston units (46,47) mounted side-by-side and having their piston rods interconnected by a yoke member (48), said yoke member being pivoted to the piston   ods    and being connectod to crank arms (49) secured to t    <     pivots of   tho    suction members by means (50) which   x    attached to the yoke member  intermediate its ends, whereby the suction members can be rocked together, or fully apart, or to an intermediate position by selective actuation of the cylinder and piston units   (46,47).      4. a machine as claimed in claim 1, 2 or 3 characterised in that the transfer device includes a   swinging    arm (27) which mounts the suction members (31, 34) and is at least partially hollow and serves as ducting for connecting the suction members to a source of suction.   5. a machine as claimed in claim 4, characterised in that the swinging arm (27) is rocked about its swing axis by fluid-operated means   (50,    51, 52), whereby the swinging arm is movable between predetermined stations during each transfer cycle, in which stations the bag is engaged by the suction members (31, 34), the bag mouth is opened preparatory to placing over the discharge spout, the bag is placed over the discharge spout and released, and the swinging arm is stopped after its return stroke, and prior to commencing the next transfer cycle.   6. a machine as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, in which a suction pick-up device (6) is adapted to lift the bag from a stack of flat bags (7) and turn the bag from a horizontal position into a substantially vertical position, with its mouth disposed along one vertical side edge of the bag, and the transfer device is arranged to engage the bag held by the pick-up device in a substantially vertical position and advance the bag from the pick-up device into a substantially upright position, in which the mouth is uppermost, and open the bag mouth for placing over the discharge spout,  characterised in that the suction pick-up device (6) is reciprocable substantially vertically for lifting the bag from the stack,   anr    includes suction means (17) which is rockable abou a substantially horizontal axis  so as to turn the bag into a substantially vertical position preparatory to   engagement    by the transfer suction members (31, 34).   7. a machine as claimed in claim 6, characterised in that the pick-up device (6) is reciprocable along a path disposed to one side of the vertical plane of movement of the transfer device (26) and the pick-up suction means (17) is arranged to turn the bag substantially into said plane of movement of the transfer deviee, when it turns the bag into the substantially vertical position so as to permit the ba to be engaged by the transfer suction members.   8. a machine as claimed in claim 6 or 7, characterised in that the pick-up suction means comprises pickup   suction    members (17) pivotally mounted on   t;    suction box (12) which is reciprocable substantially vertically by fluil-operated means (13) and is guided for vertical movement by at least one hollow guide rod (15) via which suction is applied to the suction box and, hence, the pick-up suction members.    9. a machine as claimed in claim 8,   characteriesod    in that the or each hollow guide rod (15) is slidably mounted at its upper end in a suction tank   (5:    which is connectable to a source of suction, and the pickup suction members (17) are connected to the suction tank via the pick-up box ar.d the hollow guide   rod(¯).      10. a machine as   claimed    in   any    one of the   piccediilg    claims, characterised in that the source of suction comprises a blower unit (58).  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
