<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0007248
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800123
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<main>G07F-7/06</main> B07C-5/10 G07F-7/00 B07C-5/04 B07C-5/12 G07F-7/06 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
apparatus and method for classifying empty beverage containers.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
mead corpus <sep>the mead corporation<sep>the mead corporation mead world headquarters courthouse plaza northeast dayton ohio 45463us<sep>the mead corporation <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
butcher larry r<sep>dubberly gregory t<sep>mcgowan robert j<sep>butcher, larry r.<sep>dubberly, gregory t.<sep>mcgowan, robert j.<sep>butcher, larry r.2685 wyoming drivexenia ohio 45385us<sep>dubberly, gregory t.2185 thorncliff, n.e.atlanta georgia 30345us<sep>mcgowan, robert j.1329 fudge drivexenia ohio 45385us<sep>butcher, larry r.<sep>dubberly, gregory t.  <sep>mcgowan, robert j.<sep>butcher, larry r.2685 wyoming drivexenia ohio 45385us<sep>dubberly, gregory t.2185 thorncliff, n.e.atlanta georgia 30345us<sep>mcgowan, robert j.1329 fudge drivexenia ohio 45385us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
an apparatus for receiving and evaluating empty bever足 age containers.  the empty containers may be received either  individually or in cartons upon a moving conveyor.  an align足 ment mechanism separates the containers and moves them  to one side of the conveyor.  a switch arrangement senses  cartons, so that the system can process cartons of empty  containers in a different manner than individual empty con足 tainers.  the containers, whether individually or in cartons,  pass through an illumination station wherein they interrupt  illumination falling upon a row of photocells.  output signals  from the photocells are transmitted to identification circuitry  together with clock signals generated in synchronism with the  movement of the conveyor.  the identification circuitry gener足 ates registration signals, which are used to compute value of  the containers being received.  a paddle mechanism shifts the  cartons to a separating station, which forwards properly filled  cartons to a storage area.  improperly filled cartons are  returned to a point near the receiving area.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
apparatus and method for riceiving and evaluating bffpty bevrage containers this invention relates to systems for receiving and evaluating empty beverage containers of a type known in the trade as returnable. these are containers. usually glass bottles, for which the beverage purchaser is charged a deposit fee at the time of purchase. when the purchaser returns the empty container to a designated redemption centre, the deposit fee is refunded. most beverage sales outlets also operate redemption centres. and the operation of these centres is usually a troublesone matter which takes clerks away from other more profitable tasks, beverages are commonly sold in containers of many different sites, and in cartons containing groups of six or eight such containers. the customer may return the containers either individually or in cartons and my mix different types of containers in a single carton. it is the task of the redemption centre clerk to sort or classify the containers in accordance with their deposit values and to calculate the refund which is due. the clerk may make an actual refund or my give the customer a refund slip which can be redeemed at another location. this operation is so unprofitable that many supermarkets simply operate on an honour system, whereby customers stack their empties at a receiving location and report the return to a checkout clerk, who makes the appropriate refund. an alternative to the above described redemption techniques is an automatic system such as a system of the type described in planke u.s. patent 3,955.179. this system has a pair of conveyors, one for individual empty bottles and one for cartons. fn operation the customer places the returned bottles and cartons on the appropriate conveyor for transportation through an illumination station. at the illumination station the containers are illuminated by a beam of pollinated light, and a shadow of the containers is projected against an array of photo-detectors. the containers are identified by their shadows. this identification results in control signals for a logic network which computes the amount of the refund and controls the printing of a refund slip by an associated printer. the present invention relates to apparatus for receiving empty beverage containers and classifying them into value groups based upon observations made by a group of photocells arranged in a single vertically extending line. the empty containers are placed upon a conveyor, which has an attachment for generating clock signals based upon conveyor movement. identification of the empty containers is made by identification means, which receive output signals from the photocells and evaluates those signals under gating control of the clock signals from the conveyor. a series ofsegistration circuits within she identification - means are enabled when an empty container first crosses the line of photocells, and all of the circuits begin counting conveyor clock pulses at that time. kach registration circuit has a gating arrangement which is enabled during a predetermined count range. if the container clears the line of photocells during that count period, then the registration circuit
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims   1. apparatus for receiving empty beverage containers comprising conveyor   seats    (10) for accepting said containers individually and/or in open top cartons, drive means for driving said conveyor means and causing it to transport said containers to a storage area, illumination means (16) for directing illumination across the path of   movement    of said containers photocell means (18) for receiving said illumination and generating sensing signals responsive to the presence of containers in said illumination, identification means connected for receiving said sensing signals and operative to generate registration signals identifying classes to which said containers belong, value indicating means responsive to said registration signals and operative to create indications of the values of said containers,  carton inspection means for identifying cartons which have been improperly loaded, and return means   (12p9)    responsive to said carton inspection means and operative to return the cartons which have been so identified; characterized in that said conveyor means comprises a   common    track (11) for transporting both cartons and individual containers along a common path and alignment leans (15) for aligning said cartons and said individual containers in single file along said track.     2. apparatus according to claim 1 characterized in that said identification means comprises clock means (36,37) for generating clock pulses corresponding to the movement of said belt and counting means for counting the number of clock pulses which occur during periods when a container is present in said illumination.   3. apparatus according to claim 2 characterized in that said identification means senses first and second transitions corresponding respectively to light-to-dark and dark-to-light transitions of said sensing signals and counts clock pulses which occur subsequent to occurrence of a first transition; a registration signal being generated if a second transition occurs during a predetermined range of said counting.   4. apparatus according to any of claims 1 to 3 characterized in that said return means comprises paddle means (12) for moving said improperly loaded cartons sidewardly off said common track (11), endless track means (51) for pivotally carrying said paddle means against said support track during movement contact against said improperly loaded cartons.   5. apparatus according to claim 4 characterized in that said return means comprises transport means (19) for receiving said  improperly loaded cartons   from    said common track (11) and transporting them toward return point.   6. apparatus according to claim 5 characterized in that said paddle means (12) move both properly and improperly loaded cartons sidewardly off said common belt; said transport means (19) being reversibly operated in response to said carton inspection means for moving properly loaded cartons toward an acceptance point which is different from said return point.   7. apparatus for   identifying.enpty    containers comprising conveyor means   (leo)    for accepting said containers and carrying them to a storage area, alignment means (13) for aligning said containers in single file along said conveyor means, illumination means (16) for directing illumination across the path of movement   ot    said containers, photosensing means (18) for generating sensing signals indicating the presence of a container within said illumination, and identification means responsive to said    notosensing    means for identifying containers being sensed thereby; ;   cnaracterized    in that said identification means comprises clock means for generating clock pulses corresponding to the movement =f said conveyor means, counting means for counting said clock pulses, count initiating means responsive to said sensing signals   or    activating said counting means when a sensing signal indicates a light-to-dark transition, and signal generating means for  generating a registration signal when said sensing signal undergoes a dark-to-light transition during a predetermined range of counting by said counting means.   8. apparatus according to claim 7 characterized in that said identification means comprises a plurality of signal generating means as aforesaid; said signal generators generating different registration signals in response to occurrence of said dark-to-light transition during different predetermined counting ranges.   9. apparatus according to claim 8 characterized in that said identification means comprises a plurality of registration circuits, each comprising counting means as aforesaid, count initiating means as aforesaid and signal generating means as aforesaid.   10. apparatus according to claim 9 characterized in that each said counting means generates a first count signal and a second count signal; each said signal generating means comprising logic means activated during the time period between corresponding first and second count signals for responding to a dark-to-light transition of a sensing signal and causing generation of a registration signal.     11. apparatus according to claim 10 characterized in that each said counting means comprises a first counter for generating said first count signal and a second counter for generating said second count signal, said first counter being connected for counting clock pulses occurring subsequent to a light-to-dark transition of a sensing signal and said second counter being connected for activation by said logic means to count clock pulses occurring subsequent to said first count signal.   12. apparatus according to claim 11 characterized in that said logic means comprises a first flip-flop which is set by said first count signal and reset by said second count signal, and a second flip-flop which is triggered by occurrence of a dark-to-light transition of a sensing signal while said first flip-flop is set.   13. apparatus according to claim 10 characterized in that said photosensing means comprises a plurality of photocells arranged in a vertically extending column.   14. apparatus according to claim 12 characterized in that at least one of said registration circuits comprises second counting means activated by a light-to-dark transition of a sensing signal for generating third and fourth count signals, and said logic means comprises means to cause activation  thereof for production of said registration signal only under conditions when a dark-to-light transition of the signal from one predetermined photocell occurs during the time period between said first and second count signals and a dark-to-light transition of the signal from a different predetermined one of said photocells occurs during the time period between said third and fourth count signals.   15. apparatus according to claim 13 characterized in that said identification means further comprises means for inhibiting operation of said registration circuits while illumination is falling upon predetermined ones of said photocells.    16. apparatus for handling cartons of empty beverage containers comprising a conveyor (11) for receiving   sall    cartons, alignment means (15) for aligning said cartons in single file along said conveyor, identification means for identifying improperly filled cartons, and return means (12) responsive to said identification means for returning improperly filled cartons to a return point; characterized in that said return means (12) comprises paddle means (13) for moving improperly filled cartons sidewardly off said conveyor, endless track means (51) for pivotally carrying said paddle means (13) around a closed path, a support track   (54)    and arm means (52) for supporting said paddle means (13) against said   support track (54) during movement contact against said improperly filled cartons.   17. apparatus according to claim 16 characterized in that said return means further comprises transport means (19) for receiving said improperly filled cartons from said conveyor and transporting them toward a return point.   18. apparatus according to claim 17 characterized in that said paddle means (13) moves both properly filled end improperly filled cartons sidewardly off said conveyor; said transport means (19) being reversibly operated in response to said identification means for moving properly filled cartons toward an acceptance point which is different from said return point.   19. method of recognizing a container characterized by the steps of transporting said container through an abservation station, generating a series of clock pulses in synchronism with movement of said container through said observation station, observing said container during movement through said observation station and generating a first transition signal when the leading edge of said container passes a   predeter    mined leading edge observation point, counting said clock pulses  which occur after generation of said first transition signal and generating first and second count signals in response to occurrence of predetermined first and second values for said count,  continuing to observe the movement of said container through said observation station and generating a second transition signal when the trailing edge of said container passes a   predertermined    trailing edge observation point, and generating a recognition signal if said second transition signal occurs after said first count signal and prior to said second count signal.    20. method according to claim 19 further characterised by generating another first transition signal when the leading edge of said container passes another predetermined leading edge observation point, counting said clock pulses which occur after generation of said another first transition signal and generating third and fourth count signals in response to occurrence of predetermined third and fourth values for said count, generating another second transition signal when the trailing edge of said container passes another predetermined trailing edge observation point, and generating said recognition signal only upon joint occurrence of said second transition signal between said first and second count signals and said another second transition signal between said third and fourth signals.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
