<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0016360
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19801001
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B41J-2/12 <main>B41J-3/04</main> B41J-2/07 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
ink drop compensation in ink jet printers.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
ibmus<sep>international business machines corporation<sep>international business machines corporationold orchard roadarmonk, n.y. 10504us<sep>international business machines corporation  <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
tsao chein-hwa schuler<sep>tsao, chein-hwa schuler<sep>tsao, chein-hwa schuler592 blackhawk roadboulder colorado 80303us<sep>tsao, chein-hwa schuler<sep>tsao, chein-hwa schuler592 blackhawk roadboulder colorado 80303us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
the flight path of drops from an ink jet printer nozzle are  corrected to reduce print position error on the print media.   compensation values are stored and retrieved for use by the  printer to correct the flight of a drop to the print media.  the  compensation values are based on the pattern of print data  representing the drops in the ink stream with the drop being  compensated.  to reduce the number of variables that must be  dealt with, one or more portions of the print data can be  grouped into one or more blocks and each block treated as  having a single effect on the drop being compensated.  how­ ever, basing the compensation value on one predetermined  treatment of print drops as having individual effects or as  having individual effects in combination with one or more  group effects on the drop being compensated does not pro­ duce the optimum print appearance for all combinations of  print data.  accordingly, one of a plurality of modes (mode 1,  mode 2, mode 3) of treating the data in the print data register  70 is selected based upon the pattern of print data represent­ ing drops in the ink stream.  depending on the number of  drops in the flight path with the drop being compensated, the  drops may be treated as each having an individual effect, an  individual effect by some drops and a single group effect by  the remaining drops or an individual effect by some drops and  group effects by multiple groups of the remaining drops.  the  compensation values are stored in store 75 and more storage  space is allotted for compensation values based on the com­ binations treated as multiple groups because these combina­ tions produce the most visible print error.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
ink drop compensation in ink jet printers this invention relates to correcting the flight paths of ink drops in an ink jet printer to compensate for the effects of charge repulsion between ink drops, induced charges on the ink drops and aerodynamic drag on the ink drops. the three effects that can change the flight path of an ink drop in an ink jet printer are charge repulsion between drops, charge induction between drops and aerodynamic drag. the ink drop is charged as it breaks off from the ink stream. this is typically accomplished by grounding the ink, which is conductive, and surrounding the ink stream at the drop breakoff point with a charge ring connected to some predetermined voltage. the voltage between the ink stream and the charge ring creates electrical charges in the ink stream which are trapped in the drop as the drop breaks off from the stream. the magnitude of this charge trapped on the drop is used to control the flight path of the drop by placing an electric field in the flight path to deflect the charged drop. thus, a change in the voltage potential applied to the charge ring can change the charge in the drop and the flight path of the drop. charge induction errors in the flight path are caused by previously charged drops in the vicinity of the drop breakoff point inducing a charge on the drop currently breaking off. the charge placed on a drop is predominantly controlled by the charge ring but an error charge can be placed on the drop due to a previously charged drop near the drop breakoff point. the error in charging the drop then causes an error in the flight path of the drop to the print media. the charge repulsion error effect is created by drops of the same charge repelling each other as they fly towards the print media. the repelling forces between the drops change their flight paths and thus change the point at which the drops strike the media creating an error in printing. the aerodynamic drag on a drop can change the flight time of a drop to the print media. the faster the print media is moving relative to the drop stream, then the greater will be the errors in print position due to changes in flight time of a given drop. the amount of drag experienced by a drop depends upon the pattern of drops flying in front of the print drop or reference drop. each of the above three effects can create errors in precision ink jet printing. which effect is dominant largely depends on the distance from the drop breakoff point to the print media and the relative velocity between the ink drops and the print media. if the velocity of the print media is slow relative to the ink drop velocity the predominant errors in printing are due to charge induction and charge repulsion. as the flight time of ink droplets increase and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims   1. an ink   je    printer having a charge electrode and a deflection electrode to control the flight of each ink drop in accordance with print data for that drop, and flight compensation apparatus for modifying the potential applied to the deflection electrode to compensate the flight path of the ink drop to reduce print position error; the flight compensation apparatus comprising:  print data buffering means for storing the print data pattern relating to an ink drop stream containing a reference drop r the flight of which is to be compensated; memory means for storing compensation values each of which can be addressed for application to the printer to modify the flight path of an ink drop; and the compensation apparatus being characterised by logic means 73 responsive to the print data in the buffering means to form an address for the memory means 75; and mode selection means 72 responsive to a predetermined portion of the print data in the buffering means 70 to select one of a plurality of different modes of operation of the logic means.   2. an ink jet printer as claimed in claim 1, in which the mode selection means is operable to select a mode of operation of the logic means in dependence upon the number of drops in the ink stream which are in close proximity to the reference drop and which will remain in the flight path to the print media.   3. an ink jet printer as claimed in claim 2, in which the mode selection means comprises: first means for monitoring print data for the drops in close proximity to and immediately preceding the reference drop and generating a first mode signal when the print  data indicates more than half of the close-in drops will fly to the print media; second means for monitoring print data for the drops in close proximity to and   i.ameately    precedinq the reference drop and generating a second mode signal when the print data indicates approximately half of the close-in drops will fly to the print media; third means for monitoring print data for the drops in close proximity to and immediately preceding the reference drop and generating a third mode signal when the print data indicates less than half of the close-in drops will fly to the print media 4. an ink jet printer as claimed in claim 3, in which the logic means comprises: first gating means responsive to the first mode signal to gate only the portion of the print data pattern   represented    ing drops close to the reference drop as a portion of the address for the memory means and to save other available addresses by forcing the remaining portion of the address to a fixed value; second gating means responsive to the second mode signal to gate the portion of the print data pattern representing drops close to the reference drop as a portion of the address for the memory means and to gate a single grouped representation for the remote drops as the remaining portion of the address;  and third gating means responsive to the third mode signal to generate a first address based only on data obtained directly from the print data buffering means and to generate a second address using addresses saved by said first gating means based in part on inverted print data from said buffering means and in part on multiple grouped representations for the remote drops.     5. an ink jet printer as claimed in claim 2, in which the mode selection means is operable when the ink drops in the ink stream remote from the reference drop have a negliaible effect on the flight path of the reference drop to select a first mode of operation of the logic means in which it forms the address for the memory means merely by directly gating a first predetermined portion of the print data pattern.   6. an ink jet printer as claimed in claim 5, in which the mode selection means is operable when the ink drops in the ink stream remote from the reference drop have a significant effect on the flight path of the reference drop to select a mode of operation of the logic means in which it forms part of the address for the memory means by analysing a portion of the print data pattern representing remote drops and forms the remainder of the address by gating the remaining portion of the print data pattern.   7. an ink jet printer as claimed in claim 6, in which the mode selection means is operable when the ink drops in the ink stream remote from the reference drop have such an effect on the flight of the reference drop that they can be treated as a single group of drops to select a second mode of operation of the logic means in which it forms part of the address by analysing the print data pattern of that single group of drops and forms the remainder of the address by directly gating the remaining portion of the print data pattern.   8. an ink jet printer as claimed in claim 5, in which the mode selection means is operable when the ink drops in the ink stream remote from the reference drop have so significant effect on the  flight of the reference drop that they cannot be treated as a single group of drops to select a third mode of operation of the logic means in which it forms   art    of the address for the memory means from individual address bits formed by analysing respective blocks of a plurality of blocks of the print data pattern and forms the remainder of the address by gating the remaining portion of the print data pattern.   9. an ink jet printer as claimed in claim 8, in which: the memory means has locations each containing a set of incremental compensation values stored at one address; the logic means is operable to provide a phase-one address based on the print data pattern so that the memory means retrieves a first compensation value; the logic means is operable to provide a phase-two address based on said individual address bits and on the remaining portion of the print data pattern so that said memory means retrieves a set of incremental compensation values, the logic means is operable to select one of the incremental compensation values depending upon the strength of the bridging effect between drops closest to the reference drop and drops most remote from the reference drop by drops intermediate these two groups of drops;   and the compensation apparatus includes means for adding the selected incremental compensation value to said first compensation value and passing the summed value to control the potential applied to the deflection electrode of the printer.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
