<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0006322
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800109
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
E04H-17/14 F16B-7/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
improvements to fencing.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
currumbin central engau<sep>currumbin central engineering pty. ltd.<sep>currumbin central engineering pty. ltd.53 currumbin creek roadcurrumbin, queensland 4223au<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
coll brian williamau<sep>coll, brian william<sep>coll, brian williamlot 14 cangella courttugun queensland 4224au<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a fence assembly in which each end of a rail (12) ex­ tending longitudinally between spaced posts (11) is tightly  gripped and held in position by a jointing grommet (17)  fitted in an aperture (18) in the posts, the grommet having  at least one normally extended pawl (24) thereon which is  retractable to permit insertion of the grommet in the post  aperture but which returns to its normal extended position  after insertion to engage with the post and retain the grom­ met therein.  each rail (12) is preferably hollow and has a  locking tab (28) engageable with the innermost edge of the  grommet to prevent withdrawal of the rail therefrom.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
improvements to fencing this invention relates to improvements to fencing and to a method of and means for forming a joint between elongate hollow sections. the present invention has been devised to provide fence assembly which will have a neat appearance, which will be reliable and robust in use, and which may be economically and easily erected. this invention also provides a joint formed between elongate hollow sections such as the joint between the rails and posts of a fence assembly formed of hollow elongate members. other objects and advantages of th invention e11 become apparent from the following description with the foregoing and other objects in view, this invention resides broadly in a method of securing one end of a strut to a wall portion of a hollow member, said method comprising the steps of: (a) forming in said wall an aperture shaped to substantially conform to the cross-sectional shape of said one end; (b) inserting said one end through said aperture into said hollow member; and (c) interposing a grommet between said strut and said wall about said aperture, said oromnet fitting tightly about said one end and having an outer flange portion adapted to overlie the outer edge of said aperture and a circumferential web assembly adapted to pass through said aperture about said one end, and said web assembly supporting thereon a normally extended but retractable pawl m.ember adapted to be retracted by engagement finest said edge as said eb assembly is forced through said aperture to position said pawl member behind said side wall, whereupon said tswl member will move to its normal extended position to overlie said inner edge. this invention also resides in the provision of a fence assembly including a plurality of spaced supporting posts and substantially horizontal struts extending between respective pairs of said spaced posts and each end of each said strut being adapted to be secured to a said post by forming in the side wall of said post an aperture to substantially conform to the crosssectional shape of said end; inserting said end through said aperture into said post, and interposing a grommet between said strut and said wall about seid aperture, said grommet fitting tightly about said end and having an outer flange portion adapted to overlie the outer ede of said aperture end a circumferential web assembly adapted to pass through said aperture about said end, and said web assembly supporting thereon a normally extended but retractable pawimember adapted to be retracted by engagement against said edge as said web assembly is forced through said aperture to position said pawl ember behind said side wall, arhereuron said pawl member will move to its normal extended position to overlie said inner edge. this invention resides further in a jointing grommet for the method as set forth above and including an outer flange portion adapted to overlie the outer edge of the aperture in said hollow member no a circutnferential web assembly adanted to pass through said aperture,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1. method of securing one end of a strut to   a wall portion of a   hollow      member,    said method comprising the steps of:  (a) forming in said wall an aperture shaped to  substantially conform to the cross-sectional shape o  said on e end;  (b) inserting said one end through said  aperture into said   hollow    member, and  (c) interposing a   gromrn.et      between    said strut  and said wall about said aperture, said grommet  fitting tightly about said one end and having an  outer flange portion adapted to overlie the outer    ede    of said aperture and a circumferential web  assembly adapted to pass through said aperture  about said one end,  and said web assembly supporting  thereon a normally extended but retractable pawl  member   adapted    to be retracted by engagement  against the said edge as said web assembly is forced  through said aperture to position said pawl member  behind said side wall, whereupon said pawl member  will move to its normal extended position to overlie  said inner edge.   2. a method according to claim 1, including the   sty    of providing said strut, prior to insertion into said   hollow    member, with a locking tab extending outwardly from   said    one end, said tab being adapted to overlie  he innermost end of   said    web assembly to prevent retraction of said strut from said hollow member.        3. a h fence assembly including a plurality of spaced    supporting posts and rails extending   betwe@n    respective pairs of said spaced ousts and   ech    end of ech   said    rail being   adopted    to be secured to a said post by formin in the side wall of said post an aperture to substantially conform to the cross-sectional shape of said end;  inserting   seid    end   throngh    said aperture into   snid    post, and interposing a grommet between said rail and said wall about said aperture, said grommet fitting tightly about said end and having an outer flange portion adapted to overlie the outer edge of said aperture and a circumferential web assembly adapted to pass through said aperture about said end, and said web assembly supporting thereon a normally extended but retractable pawl member adapted to be retracted by engagement against said edge as said web asssembly is forced through   seid    aperture to position sad pawl member behind said side wall, whereupon said pawl member will move to its normal extended position to overlie said inner edge.   4.   h    fence assembly according to claim 3, wherein each said rail is a hollow member and wherein there is provided at each end of each rail   8    locking tab extending outwardly from the strut to overlie the innermost end of said web assembly to prevent retraction of the rail from the respective post.   5.   5    fence assembly according to claim 4, wherein said posts and said rails are roll-formed from metal plate to elongate rectangular hollow sections wherein the edges of said plate are connected together in their roll-formed configuration by an internal   rol-formed      seam.        6.   @    fence assembly according to claim 5, wherein said metal plate is provided with a protective and decorative finish prior to   roll-forming    and wherein said apertures in said posts are pre-punched   dur n;    the roll-forming operation.   7. a jointing   grommet    for use in the method as defined in claim 1   o    claim 2, including an outer flange portion adapted to overlie the outer edge of the aperture in said hollow member and a circumferential web assembly adapted to pass through   said    aperture, and   saidweb    assembly supporting thereon a normally extended but retractable pawl member adapted to be retracted by engagement against said edge as said web assembly if forced through said aperture to   position    said pawl member behind said side wall, whereuron said pawl member will move to its normally extended position to overlie said inner edge.   8. jointing grommet according to claim 7, wherein the parts are formed integrally from a resilient plastics material and wherein there are provided a plurality of   sid    pawis disposed in spaced relationship around said circumferentially extending web assembly, and   wherein    each said   pawl    is a ramp-like member supported within a cutout in said web assembly and connected thereto at the   tapered    end thereof   whereby    the pawl may pivot about said tapered end between said retracted and extended attitudes.    9.   @    jointing grommet accorcing to claim 8, wherein the face of   epoch    said pawl member adarted to engage behind said   wall    is longitudinally spaced from the outer edge of said flange which overlies the outer edge of said   aperture     a distance less than the thickness of said wall whereby when said grommet is operatively supported about said aperture the outer edge of said flange is   forced    into sealing engagement   ith    said   sloe    wall.   10. a jointing grommet substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to the accompanying drawings.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
