<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0014943
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800903
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B41C-3/04 C08J-9/26 C08J-9/34 B41N-7/00 B41C-3/06 C08J-9/00 B41C-3/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
process for producing self-metering liquid retentive pad and other porous articles of manufacture.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
lakes ardyth dale <sep>lakes, ardyth dale <sep>lakes, ardyth dale1281 brooklands roadkettering ohio 45409us<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
lakes ardyth dale<sep>lakes, ardyth dale<sep>lakes, ardyth dale1281 brooklands roadkettering ohio 45409us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
porous articles of manufacture are produced by mixing a  dry particulate material with a polymeric material, the dry  particulate material being insoluble and unreactive with the  polymeric material.  the mixture is preplasticized to form a  composite which is then shaped by a molding technique form­ ing a dense skin (14) on the surface (12) of the article.  a solvent  is then added to dissolve the dry particulate material.  below the skin (14), punctuated by a series of very small  openings (16), exists an open polymeric network (18) which  can be filled with liquids such as inks to produce self-metering  pads.  blowing agents can also be included to increase the  resiliency of the finished article.  photopolymeric substances  can also be employed to achieve desirable surfact pattern  characteristics.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
process for producing self-metering liquid retentive pad and other porous articles of manufacture background of the invention 1. field of the invention retentive pads which not only retain a large volume of liquid, but are capable a: self-metering ftave long been desired for lubricating and marking applicat¯ > ns modern technology in these fields has particularly sought pads which meet these criteria and additionally are sufficiently economical in manufacture that they can be discarded after use. cbviously, long-life pads with lifetimes of 60,000 to 200,000 impressions are highly desirable. the nature of the pad material lends itself to wide application of a myriad of uses. 2. summary of the prior art there have been attempts to produce pads which are self-metering and retentive. u.s. patent 3,2j3,542 to mcdonough produced an inked roller which was a s,ubstantial improvement over previous rollers and gave thousands of ink transfer operatins. however, the process requires a compatible plasticizer for the resin to form a plastisol. salt is added to the plastisol prior to the formation of molding and later leached out. the molding operation was particularly time consuming. also, the plastisol uzwust be compatible with the filler liquid, in this case ink vehicle; and this severely limits wide applicability. u.s. patent 3,971,315 t(w hansen dislcoses a two layer structure which provides a superior reservoir system. however, compatidility between the thermoplastic resin, plasticizer for plastisol formation and ink which is dispersed in the macroporous reservoir layer is necessary and limits wide applicability. while greater fluid retention is a@ailable, surface metering is not available here. ther u.s patents of ':terest are 3,536,796; 3,640, 829; 3,718,532; 3,898,360; and 4,157,424. for a discussion of plastisol compositions, see u.s. patent 3 928,521. products produced in accordance with the teachings in u.s patent 33928,521 suffer from density variation because of the axr entrapped with the void former. while adequate for many purposes, it still does not met specific design needs and requires lengthy processing steps, it is highly desirable to manufacture pads and other articles quickly and efficiently and achieve in the manufacturing process articles which are consistent in their density. casting or molding in a form is not particularly suitable for achieving the density control desired although it has served as the principle process in producing articles with high volume voids. it is also known to product voicis by the use of blowing agents, but in this case, sie is hardly predictable or reproducible. therefore, it i an object of the present invention to produce liquid retentive pads which have a consistent and reproducible density in a wide variety of shapes, produced from a wie variety of materials. furthermore it is an object of the present invention to produce a pad which can be used with a wide variety of liquids tailored for specific uses and not restricted by the compositional requirements of the pad. it is an additional object to product a selfmetering retentive pad in an efficient, rapid mariner. additionally, it is an object of the present
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
what is claimed is:      1.    the process of producing a porous article comprising the steps of:  a) mixing a dry particulate solid of a size of 2 to 450 microns with a polymeric material in -a -weight ratio of 2.5:1 to   10:1    solid to polymeric material, the solid being insoluble and unreactive with the polymeric material;  b)   preplasticizing    the solid and polymeric material to form a solid-polymer composite;    c) shaping the composite by casting r extruding,    injection or screw-transfer molding,, or the like to a finished article shape, whereby a more dense skin portion is formed on the surface of the article; and  d) adding to the article a solvent in which the solid is dissolved.    2. the process of claim 1 wherein said dry   particulate    solid is a   void-forming    solid which is leached out of the   finished    article by   the-solvent    added in step d).    3. the process of claim 2 wherein after step-d the article   is- impregnated    with a   fluid=other    than the solvent of step d.    4. the-process of claim 3 wherein the fluid is an ink.      5.      the    process of claim 3 wherein the fluid is a lubricant.    6. the process of claim 2 wherein   the 'void    forming solid is a sodium salt.    7. the process of claim 2 wherein the voidforming solid is a friable polyglycol wax.      8. the process of claim 1   wherein    the dry particulate solid is an organic dye.    9. the process of claim 1 wherein the dry particulate solid comprises a void former and a colorant, the ratio of colorant to void-former being between 20:1 and 1:1.    10 the process of claim 1 further comprising the step of adding a blowing agent to the solid-polymer composite and during or subsequent to step c) permitting the blowing agent to expand.    11. the process of claim 10 wherein the blowing agent is present in an amount of between 0.5% and   5.08    by weight.    12. the process of claim 1 further comprising subsequent to step b) the additional step of granulating the solid-polymer composite.    13. the process of claim 1 wherein the shaping step is achieved by extrusion.    14. the process of claim 1 wherein the shaping step is achieved by injection molding.    15. the process of claim 1 wherein the shaping step is achieved by screw-transfer molding.    16. the process of claim 1 wherein the polymer is a photopolymer and wherein the process further comprises the steps of selectively subjecting a surface of the article to uv radiation and subsequently washing the irradiated article to remove uncrosslinked photopolymers.      17. a process of claim 1 wherein the polymeric material is selected from the group consisting of polyester, polyolefin, polyurethane, ethylene vinyl acetate, 1, 2-polybutadiene,   s'tyrene-butadiene,    polyvinyl chloride, san, abs, ethylene-propylene,   styrefle-isoprene,      styrene- -    polyolefin, cab, telfon feb, nylon,   polyethylene;ana    polypropylene,   nba,    sbr, butyl, acrylic, polychloroprene, fluoracarbon, silicone, natural rubber, polyisoprene, chlorinated polyethylene, ethylene-propylene, epdm,   pvs/nbe    and ethylene-vinyl acetate.     18. a process of claim 8 or 9 wherein the solvent for the colorant   and/or    void-former is selected from the group consisting of glycols, glycol ethers, high molecular weight alcohols, fatty acids, esters of fatty acids, glycol esters; mineral   oils,    petroleum oils, alcohol   ethoxylàtes,    polyoxyethylene esters, glycerols and glycerol esters.    19. a process of claim 10 wherein the blowing agent is selected from, the group consisting of nitrogen, carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide releasing blowing agents.    20. an article of manufacture produced according to any of the processes in-claims 1-19.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
