<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0005139
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19791114
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
C04B-43/02 <main>D04H-1/00</main> D04H-1/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
a method for control of the surface weight of a mineral wool mat.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
rockwool abse<sep>rockwool aktiebolaget<sep>rockwool aktiebolagetfack 615s-541 86 skövdese<sep>rockwool aktiebolaget<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
aberg ulf<sep>brelen hans<sep>dahlberg stellan <sep>aberg, ulf<sep>brelen, hans  <sep>dahlberg, stellan<sep>aberg, ulfstjärnvägen 29skövdese<sep>brelén, hanskarl magnussons väg 30skövdese<sep>dahlberg, stellanpl 715tidanse<sep>aberg, ulf<sep>brelen, hans<sep>dahlberg, stellan<sep>aberg, ulfstjärnvägen 29 skövde se  <sep>brelén, hanskarl magnussons väg 30skövdese<sep>dahlberg, stellanpl 715tidanse<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a method for controlling the surface weight of a mineral  wool mat (39) comprises production of the mineral  wool by fibration of a mineralic melt (12), transfering the  formed mineral wool to a collection device (36), and measuring  one or more variables, influencing the amount of  mineral wool formed per unit of time, introducing said  variables into a functional combination and controlling  under influence thereof the movement of the collection  device, whereby the surface weight of the mineral wool mat  is measured by weighing (44), and the functional combination  is brought to contain one ore more parameters.  the  value of which is changed by influence from a counter unit  (20) on basis of the amount of mineral wool produced per  unit of time as well as on basis of the corresponding amount  of mineral wool produced during one or more earlier periods  of time.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
a method for control of the surface weight of a mineral wool mat in the production of mineral wool a melt of mineralic raw material is first produced. as melting system one may use cupola ovens, fans, electrode owens and so on. as a rule, there is for each type of raw material melt one or more melting systems giving a technically acceptable function. for other melt material compositions and working conditions, other melt systems may again be used. in the production of mineral wool one ususally causes the melt continuously to flow to one ore more fibration aggregates. there is also with respect to the fibration aggregates a great number of possibilities, but in each separate case nevertheless the choise of a suitable fibration aggregate and suitable fibration methods is more limited. amongst fibration systems for the production of mineral wool those are the dominating ones, which use rotational bodies for throwing out fibres of mineral wool in combination with gaseous currents for collecting the mineral wool and transfering it to a collection means, usually a continuously moving band. an often used system for the production of mineral wool comprises a cupola owen working with coke as its substantial burning material. the cupola owen is charged with a mixture of the material concerned, for instance stone, and coke, and in the cupola owen the material is molten by the heat developed by the coke during its combustion, when blast air is pressed into lowermost part of the owen. through an out let opening in the lower part of the owen, then melt will flow out continuously. by means of a system of melt furrows the melt is conducted to a fibration aggregate, comprising usually two until four so called spinner wheels, mounted each on one horizontal shaft in substantially the same vertical level. the spinner wheels thereby are so arranged that the melt will first hit one of them and thereafter be thrown over to the next one and so on. from the spinner wheels the melt is moving in the form of a great number of threads, which due to the centrifugal force and possibly also under influence of an air or gas veil moving around the spinner wheels and more or less completely surrounding them will be reshaped into fibres. by influence of the gas movement, the fibres thus formed are throat away from the fibration system. thereafter a separation of the transportation air and the mineral wool takes place, and the mass of mineral wool fibres, which is rather often combined into mineral wool pellets is formed into a comprehensive mineral wool mat. a basic problem in the production of mineral wool has been to provide an even and pre-determined surface weight of the mineral wool mat. from the mineral wool mat, as a matter of fact, during its continuous treatment mats or discs or the like will be produced in given thicknesses. the surface weight proper of the mineral wool mat thus will be completely
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
   c l a i n s       1. a method for controlling the surface weight of a mineral wool mat (39) in a method of production, in which mineral wcol is produced by fibration of a mineralic melt (12) and the formed mineral wool is transferred to a collection device (36) by means of a stream of gas and/or air (34), said stream of gas and/or air being separated from the mineral wool (39) in said collection device (36), and the mineral wool forming a mat on a collection band (33), simultaneosly as one or more variables, influencing the amount of mineral wool formed per unit of time are measured,  and these variables are introduced into a functional   combietion,    and the movement of the collection band (33) is controlled under guidance thereof for the purpose to control the surface weight of the formed mineral wool mat by means of a control unit (28) in accorcance with the amount of mineral wool formed per unit of time, expressed in the form of said functional combination, in which the said variables are contained, c h a r a c t e r i z e d t h e r e b y that the surface weight of the formed mineral wool mat is determined by weighing, and the the functional combination is brought to contain one or more parameters, the value of which is changed by influence from a counter unit (20),  which,   dn      sis    of the   expression    for the amount of mineral wool produced per unit of time formed from said functional combination, and also from the   cor,esponding    expression obtained from the surface   weight    of   zne      not    and   thc    speed of the collection band (33) deterimne the     t#ramet#r      value    or   tbe    combination of parameter values, which should    ¯#--##6 one or ore measurement period before lie actual #ct#al one /(e.g.   seconds) have given the smallest difference between 1eljecnthe two expres- p expres-    sion., e.g. according to the method of the minimum square sum.       2. a method according to claim 1, in which there is used in the    functional combination as a variable   correlated    to the   amount    of mineral wool formed per unit of time, the   consumption    f   or    in the fibration of the mineral melt in a motor driven fibration aggregate (13).    3. a method according to claim 1 or 2, in which there is used as a further variable the amount of   mineral    melt (12) given off from a mineral melting system and measured as the decrease of wight of said melting system (10).    4. a metod according to any of the above claims, in which the surface weight of the formed mineral wool mat (39) is stated by said mineral wool mat (35) being brought to pass over a roller (41) or a  to short band, which in turn is arranged/ to influence a pressure or load sensor (42).    5. a method according to any of the above claims, in which one or more variables, preferable all of the variables used, are recalculated by being fed with their momentary values to a counter unit (20), in which they are combined with stored up momentary values from one or more of the next preceeding time periods to be equalized to indicate a mean   value,    applicable to the time period concerned.    6. a method according to claim 5, in   which    the obtained mean   values    of the variables are brought together, in common to determine   the    speed of   movement    of the zollection band   (33).       7.   a    method   according    to   claim    5 or   (,    in   which    the   momentary       -alues   into    brought to a successively decreasing extent to influence    the mean value of the variable concerned a thereby to influence the      '##r.trol    of the speed of   movement    of the   collection      band    (33) to   a      mainer    extent, the more far away back in time the said   momentary      values    are.    8.   a    method according to claim 7, in which a given momentary value is brought to influence the formation of the mean value of the speed of movement of the collection band   (33)    to an extent, which is in a given proportion to the next   preceding    such   momentary    value, so that the influence from the momentary value next before the actual control period will have a greater   influence      than      the      momentary    value next before it in time and so on.      9.    a method according to any of the above   claims,    in which each period for stating the mean value or values, resp. of any one of the variables has a given length or sampling period, preferably determined by a timer.    10. a method according to any of the above claims, in which there are two variables (for instance the amount of melt fed and the momentar surface weight of the mineral wool mat produced), and they are combined into a   functional    combination according to the following forulna, viz. f(p, q) =a   .   p + b   .   q + c, in which formula p and q are variables and a, b, and c are parameters.    11. a method according to any of the above claims, in which the speed of movement of the collection band (33) is supplementary controlled by a controller,   e.q.    of   pi-type,    said controller acting on   this     of the surface weight of the mineral wool   at    (39) such as this is determined by weighing   sane.       12. a method according to claim 11, in which the supplementary control is provided to influence the   speed      vr    the collection band    (33) to same extent as the main control derived from the amount of  production prognostized by means of the functional combination0  13. a mehod according to any of the above claims, in which  such properties of the flow of air and/or gas are measured, by which  the mineral wool is transfered to the collection band (33), the said  properties being significative to the properties of the formed mine  ral wool mat (39) and an expression for these properties of the flow  of air and/or gas being introduced in the counter unit (20) as at  least one of the said variables.    14. a method according to claim 13, in which the difference in  pressure is measured, created between the in put side and the out put  side of the said flow of air and/or gas during its movement through  the formed mineral wool mat and the collection band (33) and this  difference in pressure is introduced into the functional combination  as one of the variables, preferavly by the pressure of the flow of  gas and/or air being kept constant before the in let to the collection  band (33) and the difference in pressure being measured as the sub  pressure existing after the flow of gas and/or air having passed  through the mineral wool mat.     15. a method according to any of the above claims, in which the  statement about the difference of pressure or the pressure proper, resp., after the flow of gas and/or air having passed through the  formed mineral wool mat (39) is introduced into the functional combi  nation in the form of an   elctrical    voltage.    16. a method according to any of the abve claims, in which the  delivery of heat from the formed mineral wool to the walls of the col  lection device (36) is measured, said walls being provided for guiding  the flow of gas and/or air used as a transport medium at the deposi   tion of the mineral wool on the transport or collection band   (33),    and this delivery of heat is fed in the form of an expression to the functional combination as one variable by the temperature of some part of the system being measured, which is in such a position in relation to the produced mineral wool mat (39) that it will receive heat from same (39) by radiation, conduction and/or convection.    17. a method according to claim 16, in which one or more electrically recording thermometers or one or more thermistors are used for indication of the rise of temperature.    18. a method according to any of the above claims, in which the radiation of light from the mineralic melt subject to transformation into fibres is measured and an expression for this light radiation is created and introduced into the functional combination as one of the variables, preferably under use of a photocell, sensitive for infra red light, whereby its indication is transformed into an electrical voltage.    19. a method according to any of the above claims, in which the formed dispersion of mineral fibres in the flow of gas and/or air is irradiated, and the light absorption is determined in the form of an expression, which is introduced into the functional combination as of the variables.    20. a method according to claim 19, in which a source of light is used for the irradiation of the formed mineral wool mat, emitting a sharply directed bundle of visible and/or ultra-violet light.    21. a method according to claim 20, in which a source of light is used for the irradiation of the formed mineral wool mat (39) emitting a laser beam.    22. a method according to claim 20 or 21, in which polarized light is used for the irradiation, whereby the dispersion level of  said wight forms a preferably acute angle with the direction of the flow of gas and/or air introduced in the dispersion of mineral wool as a transport medium.    23. a method according to claim 22, in which the light radiating out from the dispersion is detected in a polarization level, forming an angle with the direction of enterance of said light, preferably so that the detection level is in parallel to the level of the flow of gas and/or air.    24. a method according to any of the claims 19 - 23, in which such light is subjected to detection, which has been spred into diffuse form by the mineral fibres in the dispersion.    25. a method according to any of the claims 19 - 24, in which a plurality of rays of light are used, crossing the dispersion in different places and perhaps also in different directions.    26. a method according to claim 25, in which the measuring results from the different rays of light are equalized by addition or mean value calculation.    27. a method according to any of the above claims, in which the power is measured, consumed for driving a blower (35) for putting the flow of gas and/or air into movement, and an expression for this power is introduced into the functional combination as an expression for the amount of mineral wool formed by the system per unit of time.    28. a method according to any of the above claims, in which the amount of heat is measured, given off from the melt to the flow of gas and/or air during the transformation of the melt into fibres, and an expression for this amount of heat is created and introduced into the functional combination as one of the variables.      29. a method according to claim 28, in which the amount of heat given off per unit of time is measured in the form of the difference of temperature between the flow of gas and/or air before its introduction as transport medium for the formed mineral wool, on the one side, and after its separation from the mineral wool mat (39) on the other side, gas and/or air of a predetermined, constant temp#rature on the in put side being used as transport medium for the mineral wool from the spinning aggregate (13) to the collection band   (33),    and the rise of temperature being determined as the difference between the input temperature and the output temperature.    30. a method according to claim 29, in which the measurement of the temperature takes place at a position or at positions, resp., where the flow of gas and/or air is not subject to influence by radiation heat from the transport band and/or the mineral wool mat deposited thereon.    31. a method according to any of the above claims, in which the speed of movement of the gas and/or air as a transport medium for the mineral wool mat formed (39) is measured, and the statement thereabout is re-shaped into an expression to be introduced into the functional combination as one of the variables.    32. a method according to claim 31, in which the speed of move   ment    of the gas and/or air is measured by means of a pitot tube, perhaps as the difference between the indication of the pitot tube and the indication of a stabilization tube of by means of an anemometer, preferably a hot-wire-anemometer.    33. a method according to any of the above claims, in which the speed of a motor for driving the gas and/or air formed transport medium for the mineral wool mat formed is controlled in order of  getting a constant flow of said medium, and the rotational speed of said driving motor is read in the form of an expression, which may have the form of an electrical voltage to be introduced into the functional combination as one of the variables.    34. a method according to claim 33, in which a tachometer generator of the type is used, which creates a voltage proportional to the rotational speed.    35. a method according to any of the above claims, in which the quantity of the melt (12) collected from the melting owen and introduced into the spinning aggregate (13) per unit of time is measured, and an expression for this quantity is created and introduced into the functional combination as a variable.    36. a method according to claim 35, in which the thickness of the ray (12) of melt from the melting owen (10) to the spinning aggregate   (13) is    measured in optical way at, at least two locations after each other in a given distance from each other, and the amount of melt transferred to the spinning aggregate (13) is calculated on basis of said measuring result in combination with the distance between the measurement locations.     37. a method according to claim 35 or 36, in which pearls formed at the spinning procedure are separated and the amount of such pearls formed per unit of time is measured and. subtracted from the obtained result of the measurement of the melt, transferred from the melting owen (10) to the spinning aggregate (13).    38. a method according to any of the above claims, in which one or more parts of the spinning aggregate (13) are cooled, preferably by means of a flow of cooling water, and the amount of heat transferred to said cooling medium is measured in the form of the product of the   flow of heat receiving mediun per unit of time and its rise of temperature, and an expression therefore is formed to be introduced into the functional combination as one of the variables.    39. a method according to anh of the above claims, in which the dispersion of mineral wool in the flow of gas and/or air is sunjected to a strong sound wave, preferably of concentrated sound frequency, different from the sound frequencies of other sound existing in the locality within which the   production    of the mineral wool takes place, and the decrease of power of this sound wave is measured during its passage through the sispersion, and an expression therefore is cre   ated    and introduced into the functional combination as a variable.    40. a method according to any of the abve claims, in which the percussion energy or the intertia of the pearls is measured, which are formed during the spinning of the mineral wool, before this mineral wool has been transformed to the collection band (33), and an expression for this percussion energy or inertia is introduced into the functional combination as a variable.    41. a method according to any of the above claims, in which the formed mineral wool mat (39) is guided over a conveyor (40) following after the collection band (33), preferably a band conveyor, and a measurement is made of the transparency of the mineral wool mat, e.g.    by the application of a difference of pressure of pre-determined magnitude across the mat (39) along with the conveyor band (40), the flow of ait through the mat (39) along with the conveyor vand (40) due thereto being measured.    42. a method   2according    to claim 41, in which the distribution of mineral wool across the direction of movement of the collection band and the subsequent conveyor is determines, and the result of this  determination is fed back to an earlier location in the collection band for equalization of the distribution of mineral wool in crossward direction, so that this will be as even as possible.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
