<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0009943
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800416
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B65B-1/42 <main>G02F-1/01</main> B65B-1/30 A61J-3/07 B65B-1/16 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
apparatus and method for filling containers with discrete solids.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
drugpack machines ltdgb  <sep>drugpack machines limited<sep>drugpack machines limited265 strandlondon wc2r 1aggb<sep>drugpack machines limited  <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
summers ian<sep>summers, ian<sep>summers, ian52 westwayholmes chapel, cheshiregb<sep>summers, ian<sep>summers, ian52 westwayholmes chapel, cheshiregb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
the specification describes a method and apparatus for  vacuum filling containers, particularly small containers such  as orally acceptable capsules, with powder.  for filling a con­ tainer (6) use is made of a material delivery passage (2) which  is non-vertical.  discrete solid material from a supply (5) can  descend freely into this passage but its spatial course and  cross-sectional size are such that material remains supported  in the passage until air is aspirated from the container (6) via  an air exhaust passage (3).  flow of material through the deliv­ ery passage (2) ceases following restoration of normal  atmospheric pressure at the exit end of such passage.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
specification for a european patent entitled: apparatus and method for filling containers with discrete solids apparatus and method for filling containers with discrete solids various filling machines are known for partially or completely i'i 1 ing container with discrete solid material. somme known machines allow the discrete material to fall into a container under gravity from a hopper or other reservoir via a delivery passage until the passage exit is closed, e.g. by a shutter or valve, or by contact with material in or overflowing from the container, machines are also known in which the material to be disponsed is drawn into the. container from a reservoir via a vertical delivery tube by aspirating air from the container while its mouth is air-tightly sealed around such tube and the aspirating passage. the aspiration can be regulated for varying the amount of material which is dispensed. filling machines operating such a vacuum-fill system are capable of high filling rates. problems are often encountered when using a vacuum-fill system in avoiding excess flow of the discrete material. united states specification 3 693 672 is concerned with this problem and describes a vacuum-fill type machine having a second vacuum system which operates after termination of the filling vacuum to inhibit further flow of discrete material to t1ie filling nozzle. for this purpose the filling tube has an air permeable wall portion which is located above its nozzle and is surrounded by a vacuum chamber. simultaneously with the operation of the second vacuum a blast of air is delivered into the container to pack the discrete material in the container. this air blast is possibly also intended to prevent particles of dispensed material from being aspirated back into the filling tube by the second vacuum. the use of a second vaclulm system is also proposed in uiiited kingdom patent specification no. 1 500 634. in the filling machine described in that specification the second vacuum system is operated after completion oi the vacuum ii]] and at a stale during movement of the filled container away irom filling position. the purpose of the second vacuum is to purge residual material irom within the filling head so that the amount of material dispensed in the next filling cycle is not affected by this residual material. the provision of twin-vacuum systems operating as described in the prior pea tents must entail complication of the filling machines and add appreciably to their cost. the known filling machines hereinbefore referred to are primarily if not exclusively intended for dispensing material in substantial unit quantities, e.g. for dispensing granular food materials and domestic powders, into cartons or jars. machines operating as above described would not be suitable for cleanly dispensillg discrete solid material in very small doses, for example doses of the sizes in which pharmaccutical powders are customarily contained in capsules of gelatin or other orally acceptable material. even if the complication of a second vacuum system as described in the earlier patents above referred to ere accepted, it
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1. apparatus for use in   dispensing    discrete solid material   into a container, comprising means for supportine an open   copped    container, cover means adapted to make air-tight sealing contact with the mouth of such container, an airexhaust passage and a material delivery passage extending through   saitl    cover means for communication with the interior of the container, and air-extraction means associated with said exhaust   passage    for establishing a reduced pressure in a said container,  characterised in   that    at least part of the length of said delivery passage is so orientated relative to the vertical that there is no vertical flow path through sfcli passage.    ¯-     apparatus according to claim 1,   wherein    at least a lower end portion of the length of said delivery passage is   downwardly    inclined at   an    acute angle to the   horizontal.         apparatus    according to claim 2, wherein the said delivery passage is   downwardly    inclined at a constant acute angle to the horizontal over its entire length.      l.    apparatus according to claim 2 or 3, wherein said acute angle is less than 400.      5.    apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein said   delivery    passage has at all   positions    along its length a cross-sectional area of not more than .05 square inches.      6.    apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein said delivery passage is between t" and 2" inches in length.   7. apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein said delivery passage is defined by solid material forming a cover for covering the   nioutli    of a container to be filled,   surh    passage extending between opposed faces of such cover.        apparatus    according to claim 7, wherein a plurality of said   material    delivery passages and a plurality of associated air-exhaust passages extend through said cover at different regions thereof so that a plurality of containers can   bo    simultaneously filled.   9. apparatus according to claim 8, whercin two or   more    said air-exhaust passages are formed in part by a common channel in said cover and in part by branches from such   ciiannel.      10. apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein the air-extraction means include a suction head having at   1 cast      one    suction passage   which    is   connectable    to means   ('or    exerting   suction    forces,   and    wherein   there    is   meals    for displacing said head through an operating cycle in which the or each said suction passage moves into and out of registration   itli    the or a said air-exhaust passage extending through said cover means.   11. apparatus according to claim 10, wherein said suction   head    is   mounted    for oscillatory movement about a fixed   axis.      12. apparatus according to claim 10 or 11, whercin there is a clearanco between the said suction head and the adjacent end of the or each said air-exhaust passage.   13. a method of dispensing discrete solid material into a container by placing the container in sealed communication with a matorial delivery passage through which material can flow from a supply, and with an air exhaust passage, and aspirating air   from-the    container via said exhaust passage to draw material into the container,  characterised by the step of providing a said delivery passage into which material   cnn      frcely    doscend from said supply but which follows such a spatial course and has   suc)i    cross-sectional dimensions   that    following restoration of atmospheric pressure at the exit end of     sairl      delivery    passage it remains filled overeat least   nart    of its length by   discrete    solid material which has entered said   rassage    ant   which.    is held thereby in static condition ready   tn    be slicked into another container.   14. a method of dispensing discrete solid material into a container by placing the container in sealed communication with a material delivery passage through which material can flow from a supply, and with an air exhaust passage, and aspirating air from the container via said exhaust passage to draw material into the container, characterised in that   se    is made of a said delivery passage into which material can freely descend from said supply but which is nonvertical over at least part of its length, its spatial course and its cross-sectional dimensions being such that it remains filled or substantially filled with discrete material in static condition until said aspiration commences,  and in that said aspiration of air is continued for a period of time sufficient to cause the material in the container to rcach and close the exit end   bf    said delivery passage, whereafter the container is removed thereby exposing the exit end of said passage to atmospheric pressure and leaving the passage filled or substantially filled with material all or substantially all of which the passage retains against discharge under gravity.    15. a method according to claim 13, wherein said aspiration of air takes place. only for a period of time sufficient to cause partial filling of said container, the level of material in the container then being spaced below the exit end of said delivery passage.   16. a method according to any of claims 13 to 15, wherein the dispensed material is a pharmaceutical material and the container is a capsule.   17. a method according to any of claims 13 to 16, wherein   tiie    amount of material dispensed into the container is less than 1 gram.     18. a method according to any of claims 13 to 17, performed in apparatus according to any of claims 2 to 12.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
