<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0016271
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19801001
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
C10L-5/00 C10L-5/02 B30B-9/06 B30B-9/04 C10L-5/06 B30B-9/02 C10L-9/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
process and apparatus for consolidating an aqueous coal slurry and obtaining clean water. slugs obtained by consolidating the coal slurry.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
signet corp<sep>signet corporation<sep>signet corporationp.o.box. 18177 253 curry hollow roadpittsburgh pennsylvania 15236us<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
dick jr perry jamesus<sep>dick jr., perry james<sep>dick jr., perry james2000 hycroft drivepittsburgh pennsylvania 15241us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a process for producing substantially clean water and  consolidated slugs of fuel from coal slurry having less than  about 30 percent by volume of ash and other impurities on a  dry basis is disclosed which comprises (a) placing a quantity  of the coal slurry in an enclosed chamber (12) in which means  have been provided for drainage of the water from the slurry,  and (b) subjecting the slurry to one-dimensional consolida­ tion by the application of compressive stress, thereby produc­ ing (i) substantially clean water and (ii) a consolidated  uniformly-shaped slug of fuel (86) having a water content of  less than about 10 percent.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
'tconsolidation of coal slurry" field of the invention this invention relates to a process and an apparatus for producing substantially clean water and consolidated slugs of fuel from coal slurry. description of the prior art in a coal mining operation, coal is removed from the mine and passed to a crushing plant where it is comminuted or crushed to facilitate removal of sulfur, ash and other impurities. during the crushing operation, the coal is washed with water to entrain particles of coal, sulfur and ash thereby greatly reducing the danger of fire, explosion and airborne coal dust hazards. coal cleaning, which is required primarily to reduce the sulfur and ash content, has become an increasingly important factor in coal preparation in order to meet the tighter environmental standards. the following methods are currently employed to extract and upgrade the quality of the coal which methods result in the very fine-grained coal being lost to the washing and finally being disposed of as slurry refuse. these methods can also be employed to upgrade the quality of the slurry refuse. the particles in the slurry can be classified by means of a hydrocyclone, a sizing device consisting of a conical-cylindrical apparatus which operates under a pressure of more than 5 psi (0.35 kp/cm2). by means of rotational fluid-solid motion, particles in the slurry are separated according to their -mass. another method of upgrading coal slurry is by -concen- traction froth flotation is a complex physicochemical process which takes place in a slurry in which the surface of one or more minerals are made water-repelant and responsive to attachment to air bubbles. weneficiation is accomplished when air bubbles are pumped into the slurry and coal-laden bubbles rise to the surface, leaving behind minerals which have not responded to the treatment. flote- tion chemicals and reagents, called collectors and modifiers, attach themselves to the m-ineral surfaces through physical and chemical sorption. another method is mechanical dewatering in which water is removed by means of gravity o centrifugal forces through screens or sedimentation. sedimentation is used either for clarification or thickening. thickening increases the concentration of solids in the slurry, whereas clarification is designed to produce a solid-free slurry. using a centrifuge without screens, solids are segregated at the bottom toward the outside of the centifuge and water is collected and decanted off from the center. the most common screening method used- is vacuum filtration through a 40 60 mesh stainless steel screen. air is sucked through the slurryand the screen resulting in a cake of solids and a filtrate which is drawn off. a further method of dewatering coal slurry is by thermal drying. this can be accomplished by directly contacting the slurry with warm air, directly contacting the slurry with the heated shell of the dryer or heated particles, or by radiation from a hot surface to the slurry. all the above-mentioned methods of slurry dewatering or extraction of fine coal are expensive and are being incorporated to various degrees in only the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:   1. a process for producing substantially clean water and consolidated slugs of fuel from coal slurry having less than about 30 percent by volume of ash and other impurities, comprising  (a) placing a quantity of the coal slurry in an    enclosed    chamber in which means have been provided  for drainage of the water from the slurry, and  (b) subjecting the slurry to one-dimensional  consolidation by the application of compressive stress,  thereby producing  (i) substantially clean water, and  (ii) a consolidated uniformly-shaped slug of  fuel having a water content of less than  about 10 percent.   2. the process of claim 1 wherein the coal slurry has a water content above its liquid limit.   3. the process of claim 1 wherein the coal slurry is subjected to a compressive stress in the range of about 900 psi to about 5000 psi (about 63.28 kp/cm2'to about 351.54 kp/cmê) for a period of less than about 1 minute.   4. a product comprising a uniformly-shaped slug of consolidated coal slurry having less than about 30 percent by volume of ash and other impurities, a water content of less than about 10 percent and a density in the range of about 90 to 100 lb/ft3 (about 1.44 to 1.60 g/cm3).   5. the product of claim 4 wherein the slug comprises from about 70 to 95 percent by volume of coal and from about 5 to about 30 percent by volume of ash and other impurities.   6. associatively formed products of a consolidation and separation process comprising (a) substantially clean water, and (b) a uniformly-shaped slug of consolidated coal slurry having less than about 50 percent by volume of ash and other impurities, a water content of less than about 10 percent and a density in the range of about 90 to 100 lb/ft3 (about    3 1.44 to 1.60 g/cm3).        7. the products of claim 6 wherein the slug comprises from about 70 to 95 percent by volume of coal   and--¯from    about 5 to 30 percent by volume of ash and other   impurities.      8. an apparatus for removing water from an aqueous slurry of solid particulate or fibrous material and for consolidating the solid material into a   slug , --comprising     (a) a cylindrical   consolidatlon    chamber in which  the slurry is to be consolidated and sealed against  the passage of solid material therefrom,  comprising    (i)    a longitudinal cylindircal   wall      (ii)-   a   circu-     lar wall near one end of said longitudinal wall,  and   (iii)    a cylindrical   pistonmdvable longitudinally     within said longitudinal   wall}     (b) a means for filling said chamber with the  slurry,  (c) a compression means for reciprocating said  piston longitudinally within   said- chamber and    for  applying compressive stress to the slurry in said  chamber to cause consolidation thereof,  (d) a   meansfor-removing      the- consolidated    slug  from said chamber,  and    a    a means for drainage of   the water    from said  chamber during consolidation of the slurry com  prising a porous member having a porous structure  similar to the   quai-triangular    poro-us structure  of a woven screen having a mesh size in the-range  of about 50 to 100 microns and a means for  drainage of the water which passes through the  porous member.   9. the apparatus of claim 8 wherein the screen is in surface contact with the interior circular surface of said piston and/or the interior surface of said circular wall.      10.    an apparatus for removing water from an aqueous   sliurry    of solid particulate or fibrous material and   f6r -con-    solidating the   sold matsrialinto    a slug, comprising    (a)    a cylindrical consolidation chamber in which  the slurry is to be consolidated and sealed against  the passage of solid material therefrom, comprising    (i) a longitudinal cylindrical wall,  and (ii) two  cylindrical pistons extending into opposite ends  of said wall and movable longitudinally within  said wall,  (b) a means for filling said chamber with the  slurry,  (c) at least one compression means for reciproca  ting   a    piston longitudinally within said chamber  and for applying compressive stress to the slurry  in said chamber to cause consolidation thereof,  (d) a means for removing the consolidated slug  from said chamber,  (e) a porous member in surface contact with the  interior circular surface of each of said pistons,  said porous member having a porous structure  similar to the quasi-triangular porous structure  of a woven screen having a mesh size in the range  of about 50 to 100 microns-, and  (f) a means for drainage of the water which passes  through said porous member from said chamber.   11,. an apparatus for removing water from an aqueous slurry of solid particulate or fibrous material and for consolidating the solid material into a slug, comprising  (a) a vertically aligned rotatable shaft,  (b) at least one cylindrical wall having its  longitudinal dimension vertically aligned,  (c) a supporting means radially extending from  said shaft and secured to each cylindrical wall,  (d) a means for rotating each cylindrical wall  around said shaft and for positioning each cylin  drical wall serially at a slurry fill station, a  consolidating station,  and a slug ejection station,  (e) at least one slurry fill station comprising  (i) a means for filling said cylindrical wall with  a predetermined amount of slurry and (ii) a means  for actuating said filling means when said cylin  drical   wll    is disposed vertically below said    filling means,  (f) at least one consolidation station comprising  (i) two cylindrical pistons movable longitudinally  within each cylindrical wall, one of which is dis  posed vertically above and the other of which is  disposed vertically below a cylindrical wall  positioned in the consolidation station, at least  one of said piston8 having a porous member in  surface contact with the circular surface of said  piston which faces said cylindrical wall,  said  porous member having a porous structure similar to  the quasi-triangular porous structure of a woven  screen having a mesh size in the range of about 50  to 100 microns, (ii) a means for drainage of the  water which passes through each porous member,  ciii) two compression means for reciprocating said  pistons longitudinally within said cylindrical wall  and for applying compressive stress to the slurry  in said cylindrical wall to cause consolidation  thereof, and (iv) a means for actuating said com  pression means when said cylindrical wall is  disposed vertically between said pistons,  (g) a means for maintaining the slurry within each  cylindrical wall filled with slurry prior to con  solidation of the slurry therein,  (h) at least one slug ejection station comprising  (i) a piston movable longitudinally within each  cylindrical wall,    (ii) a compression means for re  ciprocating said piston and for applying compressive  stress to a consolidated slug within a cylindrical  wall and causing ejection of the slug from within  the wall, and   (iii)    means for actuating said com  pression means when said cylindrical wall is verti  cally aligned with said piston, wherein there-are  an equivalent number of slurry fill stations, con  solidation stations and slug ejection stations.   12. the apparatus of   tansy    of claims 8 to 11 wherein the   porous member is   åa    woven screen having a mesh size in the range of about 50 to 100 microns.   13. the apparatus of claim 12 wherein the screen has a mesh size of about 75 microns.   14. the apparatus of any of claims 8 to 13 wherein the screen is made of stainless steel.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
