<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0012135
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800625
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
H04Q-11/04 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
a method and a switch for serially bit-switching word formatted data.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
ericsson l m pty ltd<sep>l m ericsson proprietary limited <sep>l m ericsson proprietary limitedriggall streetbroadmeadows, 3047 victoria au  <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
herschtal ludwikau<sep>herschtal, ludwik<sep>herschtal, ludwik93, tannock streetnorth balwyn, 3104 victoriaau<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a method und a switch for serially bit-switching format­ ted data are disclosed.  the data of each word, in the  example a pcm word, is serially bit switched rather than  being switched in parallel as in conventional pcm switches.   this is achieved by time multiplexing corresponding word  bits of respective incoming channels (10) onto a single  data highway (α) to form a bit interleaved digital bit stream.   data on the highway is switched through a switch random  access memory (ram) (12) under control of a control  memory (14) onto a highway ((β) according to the required  connections so as to rearrange the order of the data bits.   the rearranged data is demultiplexed to the respective  outgoing channels (16).  to avoid loss of alignment of  boundaries at the outgoing channels, as between  respective channels, the switch determines those connec­ tions which incur a switch cycle delay (t) relative to those  which do not.  this is done by comparing in a comparator  (24) the read and write address controlling the switch  memory (12) and if the write address is equal to or greater  than the read address this means that the particular bit  being switched has not been delayed in the switch memory  by one cycle.  in the converse situation the delay has oc­ curred in the switch memory.  a delay equalizer circuit (18)  includes a further ram (29) which receives all data on the  higway (β) and introduces a one cycle delay thereto.  a  by-pass connection (21) enables data on the highway  (β) to by-pass the further ram and hence avoid the delay.   an and/or select gate (22) selects data from the further  ram or the by-pass connection as the case may be under  the control of the comparator so that all data at the switch  output has been subjected to the same delay.  a synchro­ nization signal at the switch input, for word aligning the  data, is delayed by one cycle at the switch outlet.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
a method and a switch for serially bit-switching word formatted data this invention relates to digital data switches c and in particular to a method and a switch for serially bitswitching word formatted data such as, for example, voice data of the pcm (pulse code modulated) type. of course bit switches suitable for switching unsynchronized data such as delta modulated data are well known and are widely used, for example, in small telephone exchanges. however, such bit switches are not suitable for switching word formatted data as word boundary information of incoming channels to the switch will not be maintained for all outgoing channels. this loss of information occurs because data through the switch on some connections is delayed by one switch cycle time (that is a one bit time delay at the input channel bit rate) as will be appreciated by those skilled in the art. conventionally, switches for switching digital word formatted data such as pcm data comprise a switch wherein the data is transferred in word format by switching the bits of each word in parallel through the switch. such a switch is inefficient in smaller applications in that it requires an identical path for each data bit of each word. it is also necessary to convert the serially generated incoming data to the switch into parallel form for switching and vice versa after switching. this further adds to the complexity and hence the cost of a parallel word switch. an alternative means for switching word formatted data is described in applicants' co-pending swedish patent application no. 76 11580-7 filed on 19th october, 1976. the co-pending application describes a switch having a synchronization by-path for switching synchronization information separate from each word and is intended for use with remote per channel codecs (encoders/decoders) which are not word synchronized (word aligned), that is, the word boundaries arrive at the switch at random instants of time. whilst a switch of the type having a synchronization by-path provides a simple bit-switch suitable for switching word formatted data in serial form the switch does require effectively a duplication of the data path through the switch. the duplication makes the switch inefficie'nt particularly when larger-switch sizes are contemplated. accordingly it is an object of the present invention to provide a method for serially bit-switching digital word synchronized (word aligned) data, which method is particularly suitable for use in applications with per channel codecs in close proximity to the switch to avoid the aforementioned inefficiencies of the alternative switches described. it is a further object of this invention to provide a digital data switch for serially bit-switching digital word synchronized (word aligned) data, which switching is particularly suitable for use in smaller applications to avoid the aforementioned inefficiencies. in order that the invention may be more readily understood one particular embodiment will now be described with reference to the accompanying drawings wherein, figure 1 (a) is a schematic circuit block diagram of a basic known bit switch showing word synchronized (word aligned) pcm
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims    1. a method for serially bit-switching digital word synchronized (word aligned) data between inputs and outputs of a digital switch, characterised by the steps of converting data from different incoming channels (10) to said switch into a bit interleaved bitstream on a single data highway   (or),    bit switching said bitstream via a swtich memory (12), determining those bits which incur a switch memory delay (t),as opposed to those bits which do not incur a said delay (t), applying a said delay (t) to said bits which do not incur said delay (t), and applying a said delay (t) to a synchronization signal for synchronizing   he    word boundary of outgoing data from the switch relative to a synchronization signal for synchronizing the word boundary of incoming data to the switch.    2. a switch for serial bit-switching digital word synchronized (word aligned) data between inputs and outputs of said switch according to the method of claim 1, characterised in that, said switch comprises circuit means (11) for converting data from different incoming channels (10) to said switch into a bit interleaved bitstream on a single data highway   (oc ),    a switch memory (12) for receiving sequentially said data from said highway and bit switching said data to rearrange the order of data in said bitstream according to connections to be made through the switch, further circuit means (24) for determining those bits through the switch which incur a switch memory cycle delay (t) as opposed to those bits which do not incur a said delay (t),  a delay equalizer circuit (18) for applying a said delay (t) to those bits which do not incur a switch memory cycle delay and a delay compensator circuit (27) for delaying a synchronization signal for synchronizing the word boundary of outgoing data from the switch relative to a synchronization signal for synchronizing the word boundary of incoming data to the switch.      3. a switch according to claim 2, characterised in that said further circuit means (24) comprises a comparator for comparing address information for sequentially and cyclically writing into said switch memory (12) with address information for random reading from said switch memory and providing an output (23) when said read address is greater than said write address, the output of said comparator being provided to said delay equalizer circuit (18) to cause said delay equalizer circuit to apply said delay (t).     4. a switch according to claim 3,characterised in that said delay equalizer circuit (18) includes a random access memory   (ram)    (29) for sequentially receiving the rearranged data bits from said switch memory (12) and cyclically writing the bits into successive locations thereof, said rearranged bits being cyclically read from said ram (29) so as to incur a said delay (t), said delay equalizer circuit also including a by-pass connection (21) whereby data from said switch memory is caused to by-pass said ram and an and/or gate arrangement (22) to switch either the data bits from said ram or from said by-pass connection   t9    the switch output depending respectively on whether said output of said comparator is present or not at said equalizer circuit.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
