<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0007240
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800123
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<main>C07D-307/93</main> C07D-307/00 C07D-307/93 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
process for dehydroxylation of 13-hydroxygibberellins and intermediates useful in the process.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
ici plcgb <sep>imperial chemical industries plc <sep>imperial chemical industries plc imperial chemical house, millbanklondon sw1p 3jfgb<sep>imperial chemical industries plc<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
beale michael henry dept of ch<sep>macmillan jake school of chemi<sep>beale, michael henry dept. of chemistry<sep>macmillan, jake school of chemistry<sep>beale, michael henry dept. of chemistryuniversity of british columbiavancouver 8ca<sep>macmillan, jake school of chemistryuniversity of bristolbristol bs8 1tsgb<sep>beale, michael henry dept. of chemistry<sep>macmillan, jake school of chemistry<sep>beale, michael henry dept. of chemistryuniversity of british columbiavancouver 8ca<sep>macmillan, jake school of chemistryuniversity of bristolbristol bs8 1tsgb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
13-hydroxygibberellins are dhydroxylated by convert­ ing the 13-hydroxy group to a phosphate, sulphonate, car­ boxylate, thiocarboxylate or dithiocarbonate ester and then  reducing the 13-ester group with an organotin hydride (e. g.  a  tri-alkyltin hydride) which is a selective reagent so that it is  possible to remove a 13-hydroxy group in a gibberellin con­ taining further hydroxy groups and/or lactone bridges.  ga₃  can be converted to ga₇ by this process.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
proxas f dehydroxylation of 13-hydroxygibberellins and intermediates useful in the process" this invention relates to a process for the dehydroxylation of 13-hydroxygibberellins and to new intermediates prepared during the process. gibberellins are a well-recognised group of tetracyclic compounds which have been found to be of use as plant growth hormones. many gibberellins are found to occur naturally in plants and some gibberellins can be produced by fermentation methods. over fifty gibberellins have now been reported in the literature. gibberellins are based on the tetracyclic ring structure of formula i which shows the ring nwhbering (but not the precise stereochemistry). emi1.1 one gibberellin which can be readily obtained by fermentation methods is the gibberellin known as ga3 of formula ii emi2.1 ga3, like many other gibberellins, has a 13-hydroxy group. this hydroxy group is a tertiary hydroxy group located at one of the bridge heads in the molecule. in the gibberellin field, it is often found that removal of a 13-hydroxy group, or replacement of the 13-hydroxy group by another substituent can have advantageous effects on the overall properties of the compound, for example, the 13-deoxy analogue of ga3 which is ga7, is known to exhibit advantageous properties not shown by ga3. consequently, it would be advantageous to have available a process for the 13-dehydroxylation of 13hydroxygibberellins so that they could be converted, semi-synthetically, into gibberellins which are either unsubstituted at the 13-position or substituted by another group. conventional methods art of dehydroxylating organic compounds, e.g. steroids, are or not satisfactory for use with gibberellins because of the other sensitive sites in the gibberellin molecule which would be adversely affected during the dehydroxylation reaction, for example many gibberellins have one or more further hydroxy groups in the molecule which it is desired to retain and which would be removed together with the 13hydroxy group during the relatively severe reaction conditions that are necessary to remove this tertiary hydroxy group. ga3, mentioned above, is one such gibberellin and in addition ga3 includes a 19,10-lactone bridge which is also sensitive to many reaction conditions, tending to migrate easily to the 2,4-position. it is also necessary to select dehydroxylation conditions which will not adversely affect the 7-carboxy group or the 17-methylene group present in all gibberellins. we have now found that 13-dehydroxylation of 13hydroxygibberellins can be achieved satisfactorily by converting the 13-hydroxy group in a 13-hydroxygibberellin into one of certain esters and reducing the resulting ester with an organotin hydride or organosilane. the invention therefore provides a process for the 13-dehydroxylation of a 13-hydroxygibberellin, the 7carboxy group of the 13-hydroxygibberellin being optionally protected (e.g. in the form of an unsubstituted or halo-, nitro-, alkyl-, alkoxy- or trifluoro ilh1b5tituted phenacyl ester or a silyl ester) and the 13-hydroxygibberellin containing an allylic hydroxy group and l9,1o-lactonn bridge, characterised by converting the 13-hydroxy group (optionally in the form of an alkali metal salt) in the 13-hydroxygibberellin to a phosphate, sulphonate, carboxylate (including haloformate for example chloroformate), thiocarboxylate or dithiocarbonate ester (for example by reaction with an esterifying
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims   1. a process for the 13-dehydroxylation of a 13-hydroxy  gibberellin, the 7-carboxy group of the 13-hydroxy  gibberellin being optionally protected and the 13  hydroxygibberellin containing an allylic hydroxy  group and a 19,10-lactone bridge, characterised by  converting the 13-hydroxy group, optionally in the  form of an alkali metal salt, in the 13-hydroxy  gibberellin to a phosphate, sulphonate, carboxylate,  thiocarboxylate or dithiocarbonate ester, and then  reducing the 13-ester so formed in the presence of  an organotin hydride or organosilane to reduce the 13  ester and form a 13-dehydroxylated gibberellin, which  if necessary is reacted in known manner to convert the  7-protecting group to a 7-carboxy   group    2. a process according to claim 1 characterised in that  the 13-ester is formed by reacting the 13-hydroxy  gibberellin with an esterifying agent which is a  phosphoric acid, a sulphonic acid or a carboxylic  acid or an esterifying derivative of one of said  acids, for example an (unsubstituted or halo  substituted alkane)sulphonyl halide, an unsub  stituted or halo-, nitro-, alkyl-, alkoxy- or  trifluoromethyl-substituted arane) sulphonyl halide  or an unsubstituted or halo-, nitro-, alkyl-,  alkoxy- or trifluoromethyl-substituted arane)  carboxylic acid halide.     3. a process according to claim 2 characterised in that  the esterifying agent is an unsubstituted alkane  sulphonyl chloride, for example methane- or ethane  sulphonyl chloride, an unsubstituted or alkyl  substituted aranesulphonyl chloride, for example p  toluenesulphonyl or benzenesulphonyl chloride, or an  unsubstituted arane-carboxylic acid chloride, for  example benzoic acid chloride.   4. a process according to any one of claims 1 to 3  characterised in that the organotin hydride or  organosilane has the formula     r mh  xy     wherein m is sn or si, r is unsubstituted alkyl, aryl  or aralkyl and x and y are 1,   2 our    3, the sum of x and  y being   4,    and, when x is 2 or 3., the groups r being  the same or different.   5. a process according to claim 4 characterised in  that, in the organotin hydride or organosilane, r is    c16    alkyl, phenyl or benzyl, x is 3 and y is 1.   6. a process according to claim 5 characterised in that  the organotin hydride is tri-n-butyltin hydride or that  the organosilane is tri-n-propylsilane.   7. a process according to any one of claims 1 to 6  characterised in that the 13-hydroxygibberellin    contains at least one further hydroxy group.   8. a process according to claim 7 characterised in that  the further hydroxy group is protected before  esterification of the 13-hydroxy group and the  protecting group removed before, after and/or during  the 13-dehydroxylation.   9. a process according to any one of claims 1 to 8  characterised in that the 7-protected group in the  13-hydroxygibberellin is an unsubstituted or halo-,  nitro-, alkyl-, alkoxy- or trifluoromethyl-substit  uted phenacyl ester or a silyl ester.   10. a process according to claim 9 characterised in that  the 13-hydroxygibberellin is ga and the 13-dehydroxy  lated   gibbereltin-is    ga7.   11. a process according to claim 10 characterised in  that   ga3    is acetylated to form 3-acetyl-ga3, the 3  acetyl-ga3 is treated with mesyl chloride to form 3  acetyl-13-mesyloxy-ga3, the   3-acetyl-13-mesyloxy-ga3    is  treated with tri-n-butyltin hydride or tri-n-propylsilane  in the presence of a-azo-isobutyronitrile and an inert  organic diluent to form 3-acetyl-13-deoxy-ga3, and  the 3-acetyl-13-deoxy-ga3 is treated with alkali to  deacetylate the   3ss-acetyl-13-deoxy-ga3    to form ga7.     12. a compound which is a 13-organophosphoryloxy, 13  organosulphonyloxy, 13-organocarbonyloxy, 13  organothiocarbonyloxy or organodithiocarbonyloxy  derivative of a 13-hydroxygibberellin containing an  allylic hydroxy group in ring a and a 19,10-lactone  bridge and any secondary hydroxy groups and the 7  carboxy group in the gibberellin molecule being  optionally protected.    13. a compound according to claim 12 of the formula: emi19.1        wherein r is (unsubstituted or halo-substituted a  alkane)sulphonyl, (unsubstituted or halo-, nitro-,  alkyl-, alkoxy-, or trifluoromethyl-substituted  arane)sulphonyl or (unsubstituted or halo-, nitro-,  alkyl-, alkoxy-, or trifluoromethyl-substituted  arane)carbonyl or thiocarbonyl, r1 is hydrogen or  acyl (preferably   alkanoyl    e.g. acetyl), and   r2    is  hydrogen, silyl or unsubstituted or halo-, nitro-,  alkyl-, alkoxy-, or trifluoromethyl-substituted  phenacyl.   14. a compound according to claim 13 characterised in    that r is methanesulphonyl, p-toluenesulphonyl,  benzenesulphonyl or benzoyl.   15. 3-acetyl-13-mesyloxy-ga3.   16. a compound according to claim 13 in the form of an  acid halide (e.g. acid chloride).  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
