<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0017318
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19801015
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
H03K-17/96 A61C-1/08 A61C-1/00 H03K-17/94 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
capacitive switching circuit for energizing remote controlled device.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
american hospital supply corpus<sep>american hospital supply corporation<sep>american hospital supply corporationone american plaza evanston, il 60201 us <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
chan patrick siu-tatus<sep>johnson clifford cus<sep>jourdan robert mus<sep>chan, patrick siu-tat<sep>johnson, clifford c.<sep>jourdan, robert m.<sep>chan, patrick siu-tat121 peakview drivehenrietta new york 14467us<sep>johnson, clifford c.12 south prinalearlington heights illinois 60004us<sep>jourdan, robert m.22 w. 301 ahlstrandglen ellyn illinois 60137us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
the casing (12a) of a hand-held instrument (12) provides  a contact surface for a capacitive switching circuit for  energizing a controlled device (63).  the switching circuit and  device are remote from the contact area.  the switching  circuit includes an input circuit (80) incorporating the body  capacitance (cb) and a variable capacitor (81) which is  adjusted to balance the circuit in the presence of only stray  capacitance (ce) without body capacitance so that the  switching circuit remains unactuated.  the addition of body  capacitance will actuate the switching circuit.  in the illus­ trated embodiment, the input circuit (80) is energized by a  periodic signal.  an output signal is coupled from the  switching circuit to the controlled device through a delay off  circuit (88) which has a delay time longer than the period of  the periodic signal so that if contact with the instrument is  lost momentarily, there is no interruption in the controlled  function.  this is particularly advantageous in the case of a  medical device or dental handpiece where light from a high  intensity source is coupled back to the instrument for  illuminating the work area.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
capacitive switching circuit for energizing remote controlled device background and summary the present invention relates, in general, to capacitive switches. such devices are known in the art. in general, a capacitive switch is responsive to contact by the skin of a person or animal for switching an electrical circuit. such switches are in common use in elevators, for example. in most cases where a capacitive switch is used, the switching circuit may be located immediately adjacent any contact or sensor area (that is, the area which, if touched, will add body capacitance to a circuit and cause it to generate a control signal). however, a special problem is presented in the case of hand-held instruments, such as are in common use in the medical and dental fields. that is, in the case of a dental handpiece (or medical instrument, tool or probe), it is highly desirable to avoid having any voltage present in the handpiece which, if a short occurred, could cause a shock in the patient. further, most dental handpieces or medical instruments are highly compact to begin with, and the addition of any circuitry to the instrument could only add bulk to the design and reduce mobility. still further, in the case of the preferred embodiment of the present invention, it is desirable to incorporate the controlled function into a dental handpiece as an option to be selected by the practitioner. that is to say, the illustrated embodiment includes a capacitive switching circuit which cooperates with a dental handpiece, the casing of the handpiece serving as the contact or sensor area which, if touched by a person, will actuate the capacitive switch. the capacitive switch, in turn, turns on a high intensity light source, the output of which is coupled through a fiber optic bundle back to the handpiece to illuminate the work area of the dentist. the dental handpiece is coupled to a console or the like through a conventional umbilical cord, and the high intensity light source is located at the console. since it is desirable not to have any voltage present in the handpiece which could cause a shock to the patient, the control circuitry is also located in the console, and this requires that the contact area of the handpiece be connected to the remote switching circuit by means of an electrical conductor, which is referred to as a capacitive cable. since it is desirable to provide umbilical cords of different lengths, both to accommodate an individual dentist's needs and to use the system for retrofitting dental consoles, the length of the capacitive cable may vary. adding to this variable is the effect on the stray capacitance of the cable and the body capacitance of the dentist due to environmental parameters, such as the type of floor covering, the relative humidity of the office, and so on. the capacitive switching circuit of the present invention incorporates the stray capacitances with an adjustable capacitance in an input circuit. the variable capacitance enables one to "tune"
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 the claims    1. in combination with an instrument having a conductive contact surface and adapted to be held in the hand of a person during use, a capacitive switching circuit located remotely from said instrument for energizing a controlled device in response to the touching of said instrument by a person; and conductive lead means connected between said contact surface and said switching circuit and having stray capacitance associated with it; said switching circuit comprising input circuit means for generating a control signal when said person touches said contact area and thereby adds body capacitance to said stray capacitance; said input circuit means connected to said lead means, and including variable capacitance means;  means for adjusting the value of said capacitance such that said input circuit means does not generate said control signal when only said stray capacitance is associated with said conductive lead, and for rendering said input circuit means responsive to the presence of said body capacitance at said contact surface to generate said control signal, said controlled device being responsive to said control signal.    2. the apparatus of claim 1 wherein said controlled device is a lamp including a filament, for illuminating a work area for said instrument, and further incl-uding circuit means for periodically energizing said input circuit means, said input circuit means generating a periodic control signal in the presence of said body capacitance; re-triggerable output circuit means for generating an output signal to said controlled device in response to said periodic control signal, said re-triggerable output circuit means having a delay off time greater than the period of the signal energizing said input circuit means for continuously energizing said controlled device in the event contact between said body and said contact area is momentarily interrupted.    3. the apparatus of claim 2 wherein said circuit means for periodically energizing said input circuit means receives a  60 hz line signal and generates said periodic signal near zero crossings thereof to reduce radio frequency interference.    4. the apparatus of claim 2 wherein said input circuit means includes a switching element including an input control lead and energized by said periodic signal; said variable capacitance being connected to said control lead and to the source of periodic input signal; said capacitance cable being coupled to said control lead.    5. the apparatus of claim 3 further comprising a coupling capacitor and limit resist or between said contact lead and said control terminal of said switching element.     6. the apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a remote control unit including switch means for varying the intensity of said lamp and accessible to said person, said capacitive switching circuit being connected in circuit with said control switch for energizing said filament in accordance with the state of said control switch to thereby vary the intensity of said lamp.    7. the apparatus of claim 1 wherein said instrument is a medical or dental handpiece and said controlled device is a source of light, said handpiece being coupled to a flexible cord, said conductive lead means extending along said cord, said system further including fiber optic bundle means communicating light from said source along said cord to said handpiece to illuminate an area adjacent the distal end of said handpiece.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
