<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0005050
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19791031
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
D06M-17/04 D05C-17/00 D06N-7/00 D06M-17/00 D05C-17/02 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
carpet backing materials, process for the manufacture thereof, and carpets incorporating same
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
tay textiles ltdgb <sep>tay textiles limited <sep>tay textiles limitedpark milldundee dd1 9na scotlandgb<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
sandeman allan macfarlanegb<sep>sandeman, allan macfarlane<sep>sandeman, allan macfarlanec/o park milldundee dd1 9na scotlandgb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
the carpet backing materials comprise a woven, non-woven or knitted thermoplastic backing fabric, preferably at least partially incorporating polyolefin, in particular polypropylene, yarns, to which a fleece is adhered by means of a hot melt powder adhesive having a softening point below that of the thermoplastic backing fabric.  the fleece may, if desired, be pretreated to form a self-supporting web prior to being adhered to the backing fabric.  a process for the preparation of the carpet backing materials and tufted carpets incorporating the backing materials are described and exemplified.  when incorporated into tufted carpets, the backing fabrics avoid the problem of grinning, and improve tuft locking and dimensional stability of the finished carpets. 
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
by the needling process. we have now found it possible to avoid all or some of the above-mentioned disadvantages, while at the same time avoiding the problems of grinning usually associated with the use of conventional polyolefin backings. thus, according to one embodiment thereof, the present invention provides a carpet backing material comprising a woven, non-woven or knitted thermoplastic backing fabric, preferably at least partially incorporating polyolefin yarns, to which a substantially flat fleece is attached, characterised in that the fleece is adhered to the backing fabric by means of a hot melt powder adhesive having a softening point below that of the thermoplastic backing fabric. in a particular embodiment of the invention the fleece adhered to the backing fabric comprises at least a first fibre component whose fibres have a softening point above that of the hot melt adhesive and preferably below that of the backing fabric, and prior to adhesion of the fleece to the backing fabric the fleece has been heated to a temperature equal to or greater than the softening point of the said first fibre component to cause the fleece to form a selfsupporting web. according to another embodiment, the invention provides a process for the manufacture of a carpet backing material which comprises attaching a substantially flat fleece to a woven, non-woven or knitted thermoplastic backing fabric, characterised in that a hot melt powder adhesive having a softening point below the softening point of said thermoplastic backing fabric is applied to the backing fabric, the backing fabric and applied adhesive powder is heated to a temperature sufficient to melt and fuse said adhesive to the backing fabric but below the softening point of the backing fabric to form a coated backing fabric,and subsequently the fleece is applied to the coated fabric while the adhesive is still active in order to adhere said fleece to the coated fabric. for the manufacture of the carpet backing according to the particular embodiment of the invention, the fleece comprises at least a first fibre component whose fibres have a softening point above that of the powder adhesive and preferably below that of the backing fabric and prior to adhesion of the fleece to the coated fabric the fleece is heated to a temperature equal to or greater than the softening point of the fibre component to cause it to form a selfsupporting web. the thermoplastic backing fabrics used in the preparation of the carpet backing materials according to the invention may be any of the known fabrics incorporating polyolefin yarns, but are preferably those incorporating polypropylene yarns. examples of such fabrics are any of the known woven fabrics formed with polypropylene ribbons or tapes in both the warp and weft yarns and those in which all or some of the warp and/or weft yarns are replaced by continuous or spun filamentary yarns either of polypropylene or some other material. a particular example of such a fabric is that having warp yarns of polypropylene ribbons and weft yarns of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
carpet backing materials, process for the manufacture thereof,   and carpets   incorporatintt    same  this invention relates to backings suitable for use as carpet backings, especially tufted carpet backings, process for the manufacture   thereof a    and to carpets produced therefrom.    over the last few   year,    conventional tufted carpet backings manufactured from natural materials such as jute, cotton, sisal and the like, have been increasingly replaced by carpet backings woven from polyolefin, and especially polypropylene, yarns. backing fabrics woven from polyolefin yarns have many advantages over those manufactured from the above-mentioned natural materials. in particular they are harder wearing and are more economical. they are also highly resistant to staining as well as being impervious to water and exhibit good dimensional stability.    however, although exhibiting the above-mentioned advantages, polyolefin backing fabrics are nt readily dyed, and it is not therefore easy to achieve a   uniformity    in dyeing between the backing fabric and the face material of the carpets produced therefrom. such a desired   uniformity    is difficult to produce due to the widely differing dyeing characteristics of polypropylene and fibre materials, such as nylon, used in the face fabrics. moreover, the polypropylene yarn in the backing is normally in the form of   .    tape which has an unacceptably high light reflectance. thee problems  together commonly give rise to the property known as "grinning", that is the backing material is clearly visible when the finished carpet is bent and an overall appearance of lack of uniformity of colouration is manifested.    various solutions have been proposed for overcoming this problem. thus, it has been proposed to use special techniques to enable both the backing and face fabric to be dyed in one operation, but these have not proved to be acceptable.    it has also been proposed to attach a fleece or web to a woven polyolefin backing fabric prior to tufting by needling the fleece into the backing fabric. this type of backing is hereinafter referred to as "fibre lock weave" (or "flw") backing. by this method a fleece having improved dyeing characteristics is attached to the polyolefin backing.   when such a fleece is made from nylon, a composite backing fabric may be produced which largely overcomes the problem of grinning. however, various disadvantages arise both in the manufacture and use of flw backings. firstly, production speeds of the finished backing may be adversely affected by the needling process owing to the low production rates obtainable with the latter. secondly, flw backings often exhibit an undesirable "lumpiness", which results in an uneven appearance in the final carpet as well as an uneven dyed appearance. thirdly, the covering power of the fleece is in part diminished by the needling process due to the unavoidable necessity to push some of the fibres of the fleece through the backing to achieve the fibre lock effect.   fourthly, the nature of the fleece, which has a loose surface, may lead to processing difficulties; in particular, fibre loss from the fleece occurs in the dyeing process and the shed fibres cause clogging of filters used therein. fifthly, in order to achieve relatively good results with adequate cover, flw backings generally require the incorporation of fleeces having high weights and this may make the backings relatively expensive. finally, the good dimensional stability usually associated with polyolefin backings may be prejudiced due to a loss in tensile strength of the polyolefin fibres caused    claims 1.  a carpet backing material comprising a woven, non-woven or knitted theromplastic backing fabric to which a substantially flat fleece is attached, characterised in that the fleece is adhered to the backing fabric by means of a hot melt powder adhesive having a softening point below that of the thermoplastic backing fabric.   2. a carpet backing according to claim 1, characterised in that the fleece adhered to the backing fabric comprises at least a first fibre component whose fibres have a softening point above that of the hot melt adhesive and prior to adhesion of the fleece to the backing fabric the fleece has been heated to a temperature equal to or greater than the softening point of the said first fibre component to cause the fleece to form a self-supporting web.   3. a carpet backing according to claim 1 or claim 2, characterised in that the backing fabric at least partially incorporates polypropylene yarns, and the fleece comprises nylon-6 and/or nylon-66.   4. a process for the manufacture of a carpet backing material according to claim 1 which comprises attaching a substantially flat fleece to a woven, non-woven or knitted thermoplastic backing fabric, characterised in that a hot melt powder adhesive having a softening point below the softening point of the backing fabric is applied to the backing fabric, the backing fabric and applied powder adhesive is heated to a temperature sufficient to melt and fuse said adhesive to the backing fabric but below the softening point of the backing fabric to form a coated backing fabric and subsequently the fleece is applied to the coated backing fabric while the adhesive is still active in order to adhere said fleece to the coated fabric.   5. a process according to claim 4, characterised in that the fleece comprises at least a first fibre component whose fibres have a softening point above that of the powder  adhesive and prior to application of the fleece to the coated backing fabric the fleece is heated to a temperature equal to or greater than the softening point of the fibre component to cause it to form a self-supporting web.   6. a process according to claim 4 or claim 5, characterised in that the backing fabric at least partially incorporates polypropylene yarns and the fleece comprises nylon-6 and/or nylon-66.   7. a tufted carpet characterised in that it incorporates a carpet backing material according to any one of claims 1 to 3.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
