<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0005380
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19791114
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
G03F-7/02 G03C-1/733 C08F-2/50 G03F-7/105 G03F-7/09 G03C-1/675 G03C-1/00 <main>G03C-1/68</main> C08F-2/00 G03F-7/004 C08F-2/46 G03C-1/73 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
phototropic photosensitive compositions containing a fluoran colorformer.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
dynachem corpus<sep>dynachem corporation<sep>dynachem corporation2632 michelle drivetustin california 92680us<sep>dynachem corporation<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
reardon edward joseph jr<sep>reardon, edward joseph, jr.<sep>reardon, edward joseph, jr.21795 meadowview laneel toro california 92630us<sep>reardon, edward joseph, jr.<sep>reardon, edward joseph, jr.21795 meadowview laneel toro california 92630us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
compositions containing a polymerizable, curable  or crosslinkable component, a photoinitiator, a fluoran  colorformer and a latent activator that releases or promotes  the release of a lewis acid, will become insoluble and  change color under the influence of actinic radiation.   these compositions are particularly useful to make dry  film photoresists, which are widely used in the electronics  industry to manufacture printed circuits.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
phototropic photosensitive compositions containing fluoran colorformer background two techniques widely used in the fabrication of printed circuit boards are the additive process and the subtractive process. in the manufacture of printed circuit boards by the subtractive process, there is @dhered t ' ( il' sltnl':lct a copper-clad laminate one surface of a dry, photoresist film; the other surface of the film is adhered to a film support. the photoresist layer is thereafter exposed to light according to a predetermined pattern. the support film is thereafter removed and the copper layer is exposed by washing away the unexposed areas of the photoresist layer. the exposed copper layer is then etched away by chemical milling. in the additive process. there is adhered to the surface of a substrate (which may or may not be copper-clad) one surface of a dry photoresist film; the other surface is adhered to a film support. the dry photoresist layer is thereafter exposed to a predetermined light pattern and @b@ support film is thereafter removed. the substrate is exposed by washing away the unexposed areas of the photoresist layer. at this point, the substrate is treated with ai)propriate sensitizers and metalizing solutions, whereby a layer ef metal, usually copper, is applied to the substrate. the dry photoresist films are typically lormlllated to contrast in color with the substrates with which they are used. since they generally do not change color, it is extrcme- ly difficult to inspect the product after exposure to light and prior to removal of the unexposed areas of the photoresist film to insure that the light mask has been properly pj.ced and to be sure that there are no imperfections or defects in the exposed photopolymerizable layer. it is extremely useful to have a dry photoresist film which visually indicates where the film has been exposed to light so that detection of defects can readily be made prior to developing the film and etclling the copper-clad panels or building up a layer of metal on the exposed substrate. it would also be useful to have a liquid photopolymerizable system that is colorless or 0 tightly colored in the unexposed state and which hoth erosstinks and become : intensely colored upon exposure to actinic light. description of the prior art prior artisans who have concerned themselves with phototropic photosensitive systems have attempted to use, as colorformers, arylamines, leuco triphenylmethane dyes and the free bases of ketone imine dyes, of aminotriarylmethane dyes, of aminoxanthene dyes, of aminoaeridine dyes, o r methine and of polymethine dyes. summary of the invention it has now been found that fluoran colorformers can be used to formulate stable phototropic photosensitive compositions. in one embodiment of the invention, there is provided a phototropic photosensitive composition which comprises a. at least one component capable of curing, crosslinking or polymerizing upon suitable initiation, b. an initiator for said component that is potentiated by actinic radiation, c. a fluoran colorformer capable of becoming more intensely colored upon contact with a color activator, and d.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
    cijaims      1. a phototropic photosensitive composition characterised in that it comprises the following ingredients:  a. at least one component capable of curing, crosslinking or polymerizing upon suitable initiation,  b. an initiator for said component that is potentiated.   by actinic radiation,  c. a fluoran compound capable of becoming more   intense    colored upon contact with a color activator, and  d. a latent activator for the fluoran dyestuff that is capable of activating the fluoran dye under the influence of actinic light.   2. a composition according to claim 1 further characterised in that the fluoran compound has the general formula emi72.1       where ra is hydrogen or an aliphatic group of one to 12  carbon atoms that is either unsubstituted or  optionally substituted and that may be interrupted by emi72.2        and that is bound directly via carbon or oxygen; rb is an amino group where one or both hydrogen atoms are  optionally replaced by either unsubstituted or  substituted aliphatic groups, cycloaliphatic groups,  atomatic groups or mixed aliphatic-aromatic groups  or rb is a heterocyclic group having   3    to 12 ring  nitrogen and containing in addition to nitrogen,    one or more of oxygen and sulfur as hetero ring  members or ra and rb together form a condensed atomatic nucleus; ;   c    is hydrogen, halogen} an aliphatic group of one to 12  cabbon atoms which is either unsubstituted or is  substituted and that may be interrupted by nitrogen  or oxygen and that is bound directly via carbon  or oxygen, or rc is an amino group where one  or both hydrogen atoms are optionally replaced  by unsubstituted or substituted aliphatic  groups, cycloaliphatic groups, aromatic groups,  mixed aliphatic-aromatic groups or where r  is a heterocyclic group with three to twelve  ring members containing one or more of nitrogen,  oxygen and sulfur as hetero ring members  or r is an aromatic group that is unsubstituted  or optionally substituted or a mixed aliphatic  aromatic group or an aromatic ether or aliphatic  aromatic ether group; ; rd is hydrogen, lower aliphatic or an amino group where one  or both hydrogen atoms are optionally replaced by  unsubstituted or substituted aliphatic groups,  cycloaliphatic groups, aromatic groups, mixed  aliphatic-aromatic groups or rd is a heterocyclic  group of 3 to 12 ring members containing one or  more of nitrogen, oxygen and sulfur as hetero  ring members; re and rf each independently is hydrogen, unsubstituted or  substituted aliphatic having one to 12 carbon  atoms which may be interrupted by either oxygen or  nitrogen, and which is be bound directly via  carbon, cycloaliphatic groups, aromatic groups,  mixed aliphatic-aromatic groips, or re and    rf,    together with the nitrogen atom form a  heterocyclic group having 3 to 12 ring    members, optionally containing, in addition to  nitrogen, one or more of sulfur and oxygen as  hetero ring members;  and   (rg)m    represents one   to"3,    independently, of hydrogen,  lower aliphatic bound directly via carbon or  oxygen, or is halogen, acetamido or optionally  substituted amino and provided that at least one of   rb,      xc    and   rd    is an amino group, as defined.      3.    a composition according to claim 1 or claim 2 further characterised in that the fluoran compound is a 2-amino fluoran of the general formula: emi74.1       where   x1    is hydrogen, halogen, alkyl having one to 12 carbor  atoms, alkoxy having one to 12 carbon atoms r2 and r3 each independently is hydrogen, alkyl having one  to 12 carbon atoms, alkenyl having 2 to 12 carbon atome  alkoxyalkyl having 2 to 8 carbon atoms,  alkoxycarbonylalkyl having 3 to 9 carbon atoms,  cycloalkyl having 5 or 6 carbon atoms, acyl having  one to 12 carbon atoms, phenyl, naphthyl or  benzyl that are either unsubstituted or are  substituted in the aromatic nucleus by one to 3  of amino, mono- or di-alkyl amino having one to 5  carbon atoms, alkyl having one to 7 carbon atoms,  alkoxy having one to 7 carbon atoms,  carboxyl,  alkoxycarbonyl having 2 to 7 carbon atoms, acyl  having acylamino of one to 5 carbon atoms, or    nero3    - where me is alkali metal, or r2 and r3 together with the associated nitrogen atom form  a pyrrolidinyl, piperidyl, pipecolinyl, perhydro    azepinyl, heptamethyleneimino, octamethyleneimino,  indolinyl, 1, 2, 3, 4-tetrahydroquinolinyl, hexa    hydrocarbazolyl,    morpholinyl, thiomorpholinyl,  piperazinyl, n-alkylpiperazinyl where the alkyl group  contains one to 4 carbon atoms, pyrazolinyl, or  3-methylpyrazolinyl group r4 is hydrogen, alkyl having one to 12 carbon atoms,  alkoxy having one to 12 carbon atoms, halogen, amino  which is either unsubstituted or is substituted by  one or two of the substituents as defined for r2 and r3,  or   r4    is phenyl, phenoxy,  benzyl or benzyloxy that is  either unsubstituted or substituted in the aromatic  nucleus by one to 3 of amino, mono-or di-alkylamino  having one to 5 carbon atoms, lower alkyl, lower  alkoxy, carboxyl, alkoxycarbonyl having 2 to 7 carbon  atoms, acyl having one to 5 carbon atoms or   meso3      where me is alkali metal r5 is hydrogen, lower alkyl, lower alkoxy or amino which is  either unsubstituted or is substituted by one or two of  the substituents as defined for r2 and   rd,    including  the heterocyclic members, r6 and r7, each independently is the same as defined for    it2    and   rd,    including the heterocyclic members thereof; ;  and (r8)m represents from one to 3 members independently  selected from hydrogen, alkyl having one to 7 carbon  atoms, alkoxy having one to 7 carbon atoms, halogen,  acetamido, amino or mono- or di-alkyl amino having  one to 7 carbon atoms.   4. a composition according to any of claims 1 to 3 further characterised in that the component capable of curing, crosslinking of polymerizing contains at least one ethylenically unsaturated group capable of curing, crosslinking or polymerizing under the influence of free radicals, or at least one epoxide group capable of curing,  crosslinking or polymerizing under the influence of a lewis acid.   5. a composition according to claim 4 further characterised in that the component capable of curing, crosslinking or polymerizing comprises an acrylyl or methacrylyl compound.   6. a composition according to any of the preceding   claims    further characterised in that the initiator comprises a photoinitiator or a mixture thereof.   7. a composition according to claim 4 further characterised in that the latent activator generates a lewis acid under the influence of actinic light.   8. a composition according to any of claims 1 to 3 further characterised in that in which the latent activator comprises a proton donor and a halogenated compound.    9. a composition according to claim 8 further characterised in that the proton don comprises a p-aminophenyl ketone of the general formula emi76.1       in which   r1    and   x"    are alkyl having one to 4 carbon atoms and   r " "    is alkyl having one to 12 carbon atoms, alkoxy having one to 12 carbon atoms, phenyl, loweralkyliminophenylene or di(lower-alkyl) aminophenylene.   10. a composition according to claim 8 further characterised in that the halogenated compound comprises a compound of the emi76.2       a is an integer from 1 to 4 emi76.3       a' is alkyl or haloalkyl having 1 to 15 carbon atoms and halo is c1, br or i; a" is hydrogen, alkyl or haloalkyl having 1 to 4 carbon atoms and halo is c1, br or i; and b is 1 or 2.  11. a composition according to any of claims 1 to 3 further characterised in that it comprises:  (a) 40 to 70 percent by weight of a preformed polymer  binder;  (b) 30 to 50 percent by weight of curable, crosslinking  or polymerizable component;  (c) 1 to 10 percent by weight of photoinitiator;  (d) 0.01 to 2 percent by weight of fluoran compound;  (e) 0.1 to 5 percent by weight of halogenated compound,  and  (f) 0.1 to 10 percent by weight of amine.    12. a composition according to any of claims 1 to 3 further characterised in that it comprises:  (a) 15 to 70 percent by weight of an ethylenically unsaturated component capable of curing, crosslinking or polymerizing under the influence of free radicals,  (b) 10 to 50 percent by weight of preformed polymeric binder or of a compound capable of curing, crosslinking or polymerizing with said ethylenically unsaturated component under the influence of free radicals,  (c) 0.1 to 10 percent by weight of photoinitiator,  (d) 0.01 to 2 percent by weight of fluoran compound,  (e) 0.1 to 5 percent by weight of a halogen compound, and  (f) 0.1 to 10 percent by weight of a tertiary amine.   13. a composition according to claim 11 further characterised in that it is in the form of a thin film.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
