<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0007189
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800123
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
A61N-1/365 A61N-1/372 <main>A61N-1/36</main> 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
physiologically adaptive cardiac pacemaker.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
credit du nord int nv nl <sep>credit du nord international n.v. (vitafin n.v.)<sep>vitafin n.v.postbox 895 rooi catootjewillemstad curacao netherlands antillesan<sep>vitafin n.v.  <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
rickards anthony francis<sep>rickards, anthony francis<sep>rickards, anthony francis20 quickswood chalcot parklondon nw3gb<sep>rickards, anthony francis<sep>rickards, anthony francis20 quickswood chalcot parklondon nw3gb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a cardiac pacemaker is disclosed having means for  automatically adjusting the rate of operation to correspond to  physiological changes.  circuitry is provided for detecting the  presence or absence of an evoked t wave following a deli­ vered stimulus pulse, and for measuring the time interval  between the stimulus pulse and the following t wave.  the  escape interval of the pacemaker pulse generator is varied in  accordance with the detected stimulus - t interval and in the  same direction, so as to vary the pacing rate in accordance  with variations in such interval.  since this interval in turn  corresponds to physiological changes, the pacemaker is  adapted to automatically follow the patient's physiological  changes.  when an evoked t wave is absent following a deli­ vered stimulus pulse the pacer stimulus generator is adjusted  for delivery of a pacing signal of greater energy.  circuitry is  also provided for lowering the pacing energy level in  response to external signals, whereby threshold testing may  be achieved.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
physiologically adoptive cardiac pacemaker this invention relates to a cardiac pacemaker for delivering electrical stimuli to the heart for the purpose of stimulating the heart to react electrically and thus contract mechanically. a pacemaker consists of an electronic generator connected through an electrode to the ventricular myocardium of the heart; the electrode may be unipolar or bipolar. although fixed rate generators are known which provide electrical stimuli to the heart at fixed and preset intervals, the present invention is concerned with a pacemaker having a demand generator, which is sensitive to the electrical activity of the heart. the demand generator includes a timing circuit which, unless disabled, causes a stimuli to be delivered at the end of an escape interval. if there is no intrinsic, or naturally occurring, heart activity, the ventricles are electrically inactive and the demand generator acts as a fixed rate generator and delivers pacing stimuli to the heart. if, however, the generator senses an intrinsic heart activity during an escape interval, then the timing circuit is restarted without causing a stimulus, while, if no ventricular activity is sensed during the escape interval, a stimulus is delivered by the generator at the end of that interval and the subsequent pacing interval between consecutive stimuli may be identical, or different. thus, a demand generator delivers stimuli designed to depolarise the heart only if tht natural ventricular rate falls below a preset value corresponding to the escape interval. the demand, or stimulus signal, generator may include modifiable means for setting the escape interval, under the control of the physician for example. with a healthy heart, the natural rate of ventricular activity responds to nervous and humoral stimuli; in the normal individual, exercise results in an increasing heart rate, which is accomplished by nervous and humoral stimuli increasing the rate at which the natural pacemaker of the heart - the sinus node - depolarises. a pacemaker having a demand generator as described above is incapable of responding to physiological conditions which, in the normal individual, would cause an increase in heart rate. while there have been proposals to cause the pacemaker to react to the physiological conditions of the individual, e g. atrial activity, tissue ph or respiratory rate, all those proposals have required detectors which are additional to the pacemaker and which sense the required condition. the present invention is based on our realisation that the period of ventricular repolarisation - the interval between the onset of ventricular depolarisation (the qrs c:mplex) and repolarisation (the t wave) - decreases wit" ir rease in heart rate, due to the action of hormones released into the blood stream with cardiac effects. in the present invention, the interval between a pacing stimulus delivered by a pacemaker generator and the evoked rep##larisation sets the escape interval of the generator for the subsequent stimulus, and thus controls the heart rate. the present invention thus relates to a cardiac pacelaker having circuitry for carrying out demand pacer funcions, adapted to be utilized in combination with
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims:   1. a physiologically adaptive cardiac pacemaker having circuitry for carrying out demand pacer functions, adapted to be utilized in combination with an electrode (13) for delivering stimulus signals to a patient's heart and for receiving from the patient's heart signals representative of heart activity, having stimulus signal generator means for generating and delivering stimulus signals, and modifiable means (14) for setting the escape interval of the stimulus signal generator  characterised in the provision of t wave sensing means (25, 27, 30) for sensing a t wave portion of an evoked heart response following a delivered stimulus signal; interval means (28) for determining the time relationship of the t wave relative to the delivered stimulus signal;  and modifying means (32) connected to the interval means and the modifiable means for modifying the escape interval as a function of said time relationship.   2. the cardiac pacemaker as described in claim 1, wherein said t wave sensing mens comprises stimulus detection means (27) for detecting when a stimulus signal has been delivered and for enabling said t wave sensing means only upon detecting that a stimulus signal has been delivered.     3. the cardiac pacemaker as described in claim 2, wherein said stimulus detection means (27) enables said t wave sensing means for only a limited time period following detection of a delivered stimulus signal.   4. the cardiac pacemaker as described in claim 3, wherein said stimulus detection means initiates said limited time period after a predetermined time delay following detection of a delivered stimulus signal.   5. the cardiac pacemaker as described in any one of the preceding claims, including means (20) for detecting the presence of electromagnetic interference and means (26) for operatively disconnecting said   t    wave sensing means when said interference is detected to be present.   6. the cardiac pacemaker as described in claim 1, wherein said interval means (28) comprises a circuit for measuring the stimulus-t wave interval and for generating a signal representative of said measured interval.   7. the cardiac pacemaker as described in claim 6, wherein said modifying means (32) has means for rendering it operative only following delivered stimulus signals, and said stimulus signal generator means (12, 14) has a predetermined normal escape interval at which it operates when not modified by said modifying means, such that the  pacer escape interval is said normal escape interval following natural heartbeats.   8. the cardiac pacemaker as described in claim 7, wherein said modifying means (32) is adapted for external modification of said function.   9. the cardiac pacemaker as described in claim 6, wherein said modifying means (32) modifies said escape interval in the same direction as said measured interval.   10. the cardiac pacemaker as described in claim 1, comprising a common electrode connection means for connecting stimulus signals and detected heart signals to said t wave sensing means.   11. the cardiac pacemaker as described in claim 1, wherein the interval means (28) determines the time interval between each delivered stimulus and the resulting   t    wave, and the modifying means (32) controls the modifiable means (14) to set the escape interval as a function of a determined time interval.   12. the cardiac pacemaker as described in any one of the preceding claims, in combination with said electrode (13), which electrode is adapted to be placed in the ventricle for delivering pacing stimuli and for detecting qrs waves and t waves.     13. the cardiac pacemaker as described in any one of the preceding claims, wherein said stimulus generator means (12, 14) includes circuitry (14) for generating a ramp voltage with an adjustable rate of rise, and means for triggering generation of a pacing stimulus when said   rarnp    voltage exceeds a fixed value.   14. the cardiac pacemaker as described in any one of the preceding claims, and comprising a qrs wave detecting circuit, characterised in that the t wave sensing means (25, 27, 30) and the qrs wave detecting circuit (15) are connected to a common point wherein said heart activity signals are received from the electrode.   15. the cardiac pacemaker as described in any one of the preceding claims, comprising means (30) connected to said t wave sensing means and to said stimulus signal generator means for determining when there is and is not an evoked t wave following a stimulus pulse, and means (35, 12) controlling said stimulus signal generator means for causing it to produce a stimulating pulse of increased energy following detection of the absence of an evoked t wave.    16. the cardiac pacemaker as described in claim 15, wherein said stimulus signal generator means (12) comprises  amplitude means for setting the amplitude of said stimulus signals, and control means for controlling said amplitude means to increase pulse amplitude following sensing of the absence of        t wave   following           delivered pacing pulse.   17. the cardiac pacemaker as described in any one of claims 1 to 14, comprising means for testing for the threshold of said patient to said stimulus signals, said testing means including said t wave sensing means and also means for increasing the intensity of the next stimulus signal following the absence of an evoked t wave.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
