<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0015134
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800903
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
H04N-11/06 H04N-11/16 H04N-9/64 <main>H04N-11/16</main> 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
method of and apparatus for coding and decoding pal colour television signals.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
british broadcasting corpgb<sep>british broadcasting corporation<sep>british broadcasting corporationbroadcasting houselondon w1a 1aagb  <sep>british broadcasting corporation<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
clarke christopher keith perry<sep>drewery john oliver<sep>weston martin<sep>clarke, christopher keith perry<sep>drewery, john oliver<sep>weston, martin<sep>clarke, christopher keith perry3 stumbletspound hill crawley sussexgb<sep>drewery, john oliver27, the valecouldson surreygb<sep>weston, martin102 horton hillepsom surreygb<sep>clarke, christopher keith perry<sep>drewery, john oliver <sep>weston, martin<sep>clarke, christopher keith perry 3 stumblets pound hill crawley sussex gb<sep>drewery, john oliver27, the valecouldson surreygb<sep>weston, martin102 horton hillepsom surreygb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a pal coder operates to cause spectrum folding of a  luminance input signal y by multiplying twice the colour subcarrier  (44) and adding (42), the resultant being comb filtered  (f₁₂) to select frequencies which are multiples of the line  frequency.  the chrominance signals u, v are combined (48)  into u + v and u - v on alternate lines and are then modulated  onto subcarrier, the resultant being filtered in a comb filter  (f₂₂ to select frequencies which are odd integral multiples of  half the line frequency.  the two signals are then added.  the  comb filters mentioned can in an alternative be based on 313  or 625 line delays.  prefiltering of the y, u and v signals can be  combined with the main comb filtering.  the resultant circuitry  can be arranged to minimise the use of delays, and uses  analogue signals throughout.  a converse decoder filters then  spectrum folds the luminance component, and filters and  multiplies by subcarrier to derive the chrominance.  once a  television signal has been encoded by use of the encoder  subsequent decoding and recoding produces no theoretical  impairment into the signal.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
method of and apparatus for coding and decoding pal colour television signals this invention relates to the coding and decoding of pal colour television signals. our british patents 1,534,268 to 1,534,270, (inventor: martin weston) of which no 1,534,269 may be taken as typical, describe a digital television transmission or processing system in which there are two transmitted signals, namely a luminance signal y2 sampled at 2f , and a chrominance signal c1 sampled at f sc sc where f is the colour sub carrier frequency. before sc digitisation the pal chrominance signals u and v are combined into u t v on one television line and u - v on the next. the system can accept signals in separated chrominance and luminance form, i.e. yw form, or in encoded pal form, and deliver output signals in yw or encoded pal' form. any of these signals may be in analogue form, or in digital form sampled at 4f . each of the sc conversion stages of the system incoporates an appropriate comb filter which is based on the use of a line delay device. the transmitted signals y2 and c1 form a package which is hereinafter referred to as w. by using the system, a country generating pal signals can exchange programmes with a country generating yw signals using the common signal package w. this composite signal w is such that, if it was derived from pal, it can be transformed back into a pal signal with, in principle, no loss. this property of no (or substantially no) loss can be referred to as "transparency'1. a system is transparent if the system output is e essentially indistinguishable in practical terms from the system input (any overall delays being discsunted). the yuv output signals obtained from w, on the other hand, are impaired versions of the yw input signals (assuming these are vertically unfiltered). our above men tioned patents mention that a pal decoder can be constituted by using the pal to w decoder connected to the circuits which convert the w components signals to y and u, v respectively. we have also appreciated that the route yw-w-pal' constitutes a pal coder. furthermore. as the route pal-w-pal' is transparent, it follows that in cascaded systems of the same type the route w-pal' -pal-w is also transparent. it can further be shown that in cascaded systems of the same type the route w-y'u'v'-yuv-w is transparent. thus it is possible, in princple, to cascade any number of systems of the same type, joined either by pal or yuv ports without impairing the w signal package. in particular, the route pal-w-y'u'v'-yw-w-pal is equivalent to the route pal-w-pal' which is, in principal, transparent. thus, decoding using the system followed by recoding also using the system is transparent. further the route yuv-w- pal'-pal-w-y'u'v' is equivalent to the route y w-w-y'u'v', so that coding by the system followed by decoding by the system is equivalent to a yuv transmission path in which luminance is never mixed with chrominance.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims 1. a method of encoding y, u and v signals into a pal colour television signal, comprising:  spectrum folding the luminance signal y with respect to a frequency twice the colour sub carrier frequency to produce alias components in the video band;  comb filtering the resultant luminance signalwith   amodulus sine       response having peaks at integral multiples of fl/n, where f is  l l    the television line frequency, and n is an odd integer;  forming the u and v signals into a composite chrominance signal c based on u + v and u - v on alternate lines;  modulating the chrominance signal c onto the colour subcarrier frequency;  comb filtering the modulated chrominance signal with a modulus sine response having peaks at odd integral multiples of   ft/2n; ;    and  combining the luminance and modulated chrominance signals.   2. a method according to claim 1, including additional filtering to prefilter the y, u and v signals with a comb filter response.      3. a method of decoding a pal colour television signal into    y,   l7    and v signals, comprising:  comb filtering the pal signal with a modulus sine respcnse having peaks at integral multiples of f /n, where f is  l l the television line frequency, and n is an odd integer;    spectrum folding the said comb filtered signal with respect to a frequency twice the colour subcarrier frequency to provide a   l1rinance    signal;  comb filtering the pal signal with a modulus sine    response having peaks at odd integral multiples of f /2n;  l     multiplying the last-mentioned comb filtered signal by a signal of subcarrier frequency; and  separating the multipled signal into its orthogonal u and v components.   4. a method according to claim 3, including additional filtering to post-filter the y, u and v signals with a comb filter response.   5. a method according to claim 2 or 4, in which the additional filtering steps are combined with the aforesaid comb filtering steps respectively.   6. a method according to any preceding claim, in which n is greater than one, and is preferably 313 or 625.   7. a method according to any preceding claims, in which the spectrum folding is achieved by multiplication by a signal twice the sub carrier frequency and addition of the resultant to the original signal.   8. a method according to any preceding claim, in which the luminance and chrominance signals remain in analogue form.     9. a method of decoding in accordance with claim 3 sequentially followed by a   method    of encoding the decoded signals in accordance with claim 1.   10. a pal coder for encoding y, u and v   signals    into a pal colour television signal,   co:rnristhg:     luminance processing circuitry adapted to cause   spectrum    folding of a luminance input signal y with respect to a frequency twice the colour sub carrier frequency to produce alias components in the video band, and to   como    filter   the    resultant luminance signal with a modulus sine response having peaks at integral multiples of f /n, where f is the television line frequency, and n is an  l l odd integer; ;  chrominance processing circuitry adapted to form the u and v signals into a composite chrominance signal c based on u + v and u - v on alternate lines, to modulate the chrominance signal c onto the colour subcarrier frequency, and to comb filter the modulated chrominance signal with a modulus sine response having peaks at odd integral multiples of   fl/2n;    and  combining means for combining the luminance and modulated chrominance signals.   11. apparatus according to claim 10, including additional filters for prefiltering the y, u and v signals with a   comb    filter response.     12.   .    pal decoder for decoding a pal colour television signal into y, u and v signals,   comprising.       luminance processing circuitry adapted to ccmb filter the pal signal with a modulus sine response having peaks at integral multiples of fl/n, where fl is the television line frequency, and n is an odd integer, and to cause spectrum foldin of the com filtered signal with respect   to    a   frequency    twice the colour subcarrier frequency to provide a luminance signal;    chromginance    processing circuitry adapted to comb filter   me    pal signal with a   modulus    sine response having   peaks    at odd integral multiples of fl/2n, to multiply the last-mentioned comb filtered signal by a   signal    of subcarrier frequency, an to separate the multiplied signal into its orthogonal u and v components.   13. apparatus according to claim 12,   including      additional    filters for post-filtering the y, u and v signals with a comb filter response.   14. apparatus according to claim 11 or 13, in which   the    additional filters are combined with   the    aforesaid comb filters respectively.   15.   apparatus    according to any of claims 10 to 14, in which n is greater   than    one, and is   preferably      313    or 625.     16. apparatus according to any of claims 10 to 15, in which the spectrum folding   ls    achieved by multiplication   b    a signal of twice the subcarrier frequency and addition of the resultant to the original signal.   17. apparatus according to any of claims 10 to 16, in which the processing circuitry operates with the signals remaining in analogue form.   18. a decoder according to claim 12 having an encoder according to claim 10 coupled to its outputs.   19. a pal coder comprising first, second and third inputs for receiving y, u and v input signals respectively; v-axis switching means for switching the v signal; multipliers for modulating the u and v signals onto subcarrier at orthogonal phase positions; combining means for combining the u   and v    signals and subtracting them from the y input signal; a luminance-stop comb filter connected to the output of the combining means; and a sub tractor for subtracting the thus filtered signal from the luminance input signal to provide a pal output signal.    20. a pal decoder comprising an input for receiving a pal input signal; a luminance-stop comb filter connected to the input; a subtractor connected to subtract the output of the luminance-stop filter from the input signal to provide a y output signal; multipliers for multiplying the output of the luminance-stop filter by two subcarrier signals of orthogonal phase to provide a u output   signal and a switched v signal; and v-axis switching means for removing the v-axis switching to provide a v output signal.    21. apparatus according to claim 19 or 20, in   'nich    the luminance-stop filter   oomprises    first and second delays connected in series each of an odd number of lines, combining means for averaging the input and the output of the second delay and subtracting the resultant from the output of the first delay; half-differencing means for taking half the difference between the input and the output of the second delay; multiplying means for multiplying the output of the half-differencing means by a signal of twice sub carrier frequency; and an adder for adding the outputs of the combining means and the multiplying means.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
