<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0007773
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800206
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
A44C-7/00 <main>F16B-3/00</main> 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
pierced-ear earring locking and holding system.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
cappiello frank j<sep>cappiello, frank j.<sep>cappiello, frank j.richter drivedanbury, connecticut 06810us<sep>cappiello, frank j. <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
cappiello frank j<sep>cappiello, frank j.<sep>cappiello, frank j.richter drivedanbury, connecticut 06810us<sep>cappiello, frank j. <sep>cappiello, frank j.richter drivedanbury, connecticut 06810us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
by providing a slender, elongated shaft (23) having the  terminating end portion of the shaft pivotally engaged with  the main shaft (22), a unique, one-piece, pierced earring hold­ ing system is achieved.  the pierced earring holding system  (20) of this invention is usable with any desired pierced ear­ ring design, and assures secure and easy attachment to the  pierced ears of the user, while also completely eliminating  potential loss of the earring.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
pierced earring'locking and holding systfm background of the invention this invention relates to various constructions for pierced earrings and more particularly to a one-piece pierced earring construction which is quickly, securely and easily locked in position. for over one hundred years, women have adorned themselves with various ornaments and gems, with their ears being a principal site for such jewelry. through the many years in which earrings have been used and have been fashioned in various configurations, depending upon the particular style and taste of the period, there have only been two basic earring configurations developed. one configuration, with which this application is not concerned, is the clip-on type earring. the second category of earrings is the pierced ear type, and represents earring type to which this application is directed. although pierced earrings have been used at least since the turn of the century, little change or innovative variations has been realized in the systems used to securely mount the earring in the pierced ear of the user. the typical configuration found in pierced earrings for the last hundred years is a solid, elongated shaft or stem, to which the particular decorative portion of the earring is secured, with a locking mount or a holding nut slidably engagable along the elongated shaft for attachment thereto. although various alternative constructions for the holding nut of this common type of pierced earring has been developed through the years, all of these holding nuts suffer from common deficiencies. initially, these prior art holding nuts were threadedly engaged with the shaft, thereby requiring mating threads in the holding nut and along the shaft of the pierced earring. such a system is typified by huber, u.s. patent 799,056. it is clearly obvious that this construction suffered from many drawbacks, principally fabrication difficulties and expense to achieve the threaded construction, as well as difficulty of quick and convenient assembly by the user. since secure engagement of the earring could only be obtained by threadily engaging the locking nut with the threaded shaft of the pierced earring, some expert degree of manipulation and handling was required in order to achieve the threaded engagement of the locking nut on the shaft. in order to eliminte the necessity of threaded shafts and threaded lock nuts, a straight elongated shaft and slidable lock nut, common in today's market, was developed. in this construction, the lock nut slidably engages the elongated shaft and is advanced along the shaft until securely engaging the shaft near the rear of the user's earlobe, maintaining the earring in its locked position. initially, these slidable lock nuts are effective but, after continuous use, the shaft engaging and holding portion formed in the lock nut begins to wear, causing undesirable slippage of the lock nut while mounted in place. as a result, after these lock nuts have been used, undesirable and completely unwanted detachment of the lock nut from the shaft occurs, resulting in loss of the lock nut and possible loss of the entire pierced earring.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims 1. a one-piece, integral, locking and holding system for pierced earrings comprising:  a) a shaft having  a) a distal end, and  b) a proximal end mounted to the decorative  viewable portion of the earring;  b) a locking bar pivotally engaged with the  distal end of the shaft and movable between  a) a first position with the longitudinal  axis of the locking bar substantially  parallel to the central axis of the shaft,  and  b) a second position with the longitudinal  axis of the locking bar substantially  perpendicular to the central axis of the  shaft;  and  c) pivot means integrally connecting the shaft  and the locking bar, and providing the axis  about which the locking bar pivots, whereby, a one-piece, integral, locking and holding system is achieved which is easily insertable in a pierced ear as a substantially straight member, and is quickly moved into a secure, locked position, eliminating unwanted dislodgement from the ear.   2. a one-piece, integral, locking and holding system defined in claim 1, wherein the shaft is defined as comprising a recess formed at the distal end thereof and extending towards the proximal end of the shaft substantially along the central axis of the shaft and the locking bar is defined as being pivotally mounted within the recess.     3. the one-piece, integral, locking and holding system defined in claim 2, wherein said locking bar is defined as being pivotally mounted near one of its terminating ends.   4. the one-piece, integral, locking and holding system defined in claim 2, wherein the locking bar is defined as being pivotally mounted substantially at the midpoint of its longitudinal axis, and the recess   formedin    the shaft is defined as    extending    completely through the shaft;  forming two opposed facing arms ex  tending from the major-portion of the  shaft, and  (2) comprising an axial length slightly  greater than the pivotable length of  the locking bar, whereby the locking  bar is free to rotate through an    retire      36co    about the pivot axis 5. the one-piece, integral, locking and holding system defined in claim 1, when the shaft is defined as comprising a continuous elongated   member    having a curved-and a straight section, with the   straight    section incorporating the distal end to which the locking bar is engaged.   6. the one-piece, integral, locking and holding system defined in claim 1, when the shaft is defined as comprising two independent portions in twisted, intertwined engagement for substantially their entire length, forming a substantially straight elongated shaft, with the two portions being  separated at their distal end to form a receiving zone therebetween for interengagement with the locking bar.   7. the one-piece, integral, locking and holding system defined in claim 1, or claim 6 wherein the locking bar is defined as being pivotally engaged with the distal end of the shaft near one end of the bar, and the locking bar comprises  c) two independent sections, both of which are pivotable  about the axis defined by the pivot pin, allowing each  of the sections to be moved in opposite directions, to  be providing a substantially continuous locking bar  having a longitudinal axis   perpendiculair    to the  central axis of the shaft with said bar   extending    in  opposite directions from the shaft.   8. the cne piece, integral, locking and holding system defined in claim 7, wherein the two sections forming the locking bar are defined as being substantially identical to each other, and wherein the shaft is further defined as comprising at least two cutout portions   periphcrally    surrounding a portion of the distal end of the shaft, with said cutout portions being positioned substantially 900 from each other, and the locking bar is further defined as comprising recess engaging posts formed on the outer peripheral surface thereof for cooperative  engagement with the cutout portion formed on the shaft, thereby providing a plurality of alternative .locked positions wherein the locking bar is securable in the alternative positions by the engagement of the posts with the cutouts.   9. the one-piece, integral, locking and holding system defined in claim 1, wherein the shaft is defined as comprising a single elongated wire member foldingly bent back upon itself into two substantially equal portions, with the locking bar pivotally captured about the folded distal end of the shaft, and with the terminating ends of   theelongated    wire forming the proximal end of the shaft.    10. the one piece, integral, locking and holding system defined in claim 7, wherein the two independent portions are formed from a single continuous elongated wire member, and wherein the two   portions    are further defined as being in twisted, intertwined engagement for substantially their entire length, forming a substantially straight elongated shaft, with the two portions being separated only near their distal end, to enable the locking bar to rotate about the distal end of the shaft.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
