<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0011994
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800611
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
F02M-9/14 <main>F02M-9/14</main> F02M-43/00 F02D-35/00 F02M-9/00 F02D-41/18 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
fuel-air ratio controlled carburetion system.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
abbey harold george<sep>abbey, harold george<sep>abbey, harold george11 goldsmith driveholmdel, new jersey 07733us<sep>abbey, harold george<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
abbey harold george<sep>abbey, harold george<sep>abbey, harold george11 goldsmith driveholmdel, new jersey 07733us<sep>abbey, harold george<sep>abbey, harold george11 goldsmith driveholmdel, new jersey 07733us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
an automatic control system for supplying a fuel-air mixture  to the inlet of the intake manifold of an internal combustion  engine is adapted to regulate the ratio of air to fuel so that  this ratio is optimised for prevailing conditions of engine  speed and load.  the system comprises a variable venturi  structure (13,16) whose input is coupled to a source of combination  air and whose output is coupled to the inlet of the  intake manifold, a servo motor (32) coupled to a mechanism  for adjusting the area of the venturi throat, a fuel supply  metering valve (20) to control the feed of an auxiliary amount  of fuel into the venturi structure, a motor (22) coupled to the  valve to adjust the auxiliary fuel feed and means for sensing  the difference in air pressure between the input to the venturi  structure and its throat to generate a command signal.  a  controller (31) responds to the signal and compares the signal  with a servo motor set point to produce an output for application  to the servo motor (32) to adjust the throat area (14) to  comply with the set point.  means are provided to sense the  degree of vacuum in the intake manifold to control the auxiliary  fuel-control motor (22) to adjust the auxiliary fuel feed, a  transducer (25) is coupled to the auxiliary fuel-control motor  (22) to produce an auxiliary signal proportional to the degree  of vacuum and means are provided to apply the auxiliary  signal to the controller (31) to modulate the command signal  and cause the rate of air flow through the venturi structure to  assume a value relative to the rate of fuel flow at which the  resultant ratio is optimised with respect to the prevailing conditions  of speed and load.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
fuel-air ratio controlled carburetion system this invention relates generally to variable venturi carburetion systems for supplying a fuel-air mixture to the internal combustion engine of an automotive vehicle, and more particularly to a system for automatically controlling the flow of fuel and air admitted into the venturi to maintain a desired ratio thereto under varying conditions of load and speed. the function of a carburetor is to produce the fuel-air mixture needed for the operation of an internal combustion engine. in the carburetor, the fuel is introduced in the form of tiny droplets in a stream of air, the droplets being vaporised as a result of heat absorption in a reduced pressure zone on the way to the combustion chamber whereby the mixture is rendered inflammable. in a conventional-carburetor, air flows into the carburetor through a venturi tube which is generally circular in shape. the reduction in pressure at the venturi throad causes fuel to flow from a float chamber in which the fuel is stored through a fuel jet into the air stream, the fuel being atomised because of the difference between air and fuel velocities. the behaviour of an internal combustion engine in terms of operating efficiency, fuel economy and emission of pollutants is directly effected by the fuel-air ratio of the combustible charge. under ideal circumstances, the engine should at all times burn 14.5 parts of air to one part of fuel to satisfy the stoichiometric air-to-fuel ratio. but in actual operation, this ratio varies as a function of operating speed and is effected by changes in load and temperature. to obtain maximum economy, the fuel-to-air ratio in the mixture should be maintained within close tolerances in all modes of operation, such as "idle" while standing still, ',slow-speeds" up to about 20 miles an hour, "cruising speeds" and "high speeds". the conventional practice is to provide an accelerating pump system to furnish an extra charge of fuel for accelerations, a choke system to enrich the mixture for starting a cold enging and a throttle by-pass jet for idle and slow speed, as well as a power jet or auxiliary barrels for high speed or high power operation, all in addition to the main jet. another reason why the maintenance of a steady fuel-to-air ratio is important is that the emission of pollutants is in large measure governed by this ratio. thus, when the mixture is relatively low in air, carbon monoxide is produced, and when the ratio is excessivelv rich in fuel, unburned hvdrocarbons are emitted in the exhaust. a major problem encountered in carburetion is to secure the correct amount of suction around the main jet at slow engine speeds and yet allow enough air to enter at high engine speeds to maintain the desired ratio of air and fuel. venturi size must, of necessity, represent a compromise for both high and low speed operation. because the maximum power an engine can develop is limited by the amount of air it can breathe in, the venturi
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:   1. an automatic control system for supplying a fuel-air mixture to the inlet of the intake manifold of the internal combustion engine of a vehicle for regulating the ratio of air to fuel so that this ratio is optimised for prevailing conditions of engine speed and load, said system comprising:  a. a variable venturi structure whose input is coupled to a source of combustion air and whose output is coupled to the inlet of said intake manifold, said structure including a throat and a mechanism to adjust the effective area thereof;  b. a servo motor operatively coupled to said mechanism to adjust the area of said throat;  c. fuel supply means including a metering valve which controls an auxiliary amount of the fuel to feed fuel into said venturi structure to be intermixed with said air; ;  d. an auxiliary fuel-control motor operatively coupled to said valve to adjust the auxiliary fuel feed thereof;  e. means to sense the difference in air pressure existing between the input to the   venturi structure and its throat to generate a command signal indicative thereof;  f. a controller responsive to said command signal to compare said signal with a servo motor set point to produce an output which is applied to the servo motor to adjust said throat area in a direction and to an extent causing the velocity of air through said venturi structure to comply with said set point;  said controller, said servo motor and said means to sense air pressure constituting a closed process control loop;  g. means to sense the degree of vacuum in said intake manifold to control said auxiliary fuel-control motor to adjust the auxiliary fuel feed accordingly, said degree of vacuum reflecting the prevailing conditions of speed and load;  h. a transducer coupled to said auxiliary fuel-control motor to produce an auxiliary signal proportional to the degree of vacuum; and  i. means to apply said auxiliary signal to said controller in said loop to modulate said command signal to cause the rate of air flow through said venturi structure to assume a value relative to the rate of fuel flow at which the resultant ratio is optimised with respect to said prevailing conditions of speed and load  2. an automatic control system, as claimed in claim 1, wherein said engine includes an exhaust and further including means to sense the level of pollutants emitted through said exhaust to produce a signal which is applied to said controller to so modify the fuel-air ratio as to reduce said level.   3. an automatic control system, as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, wherein said engine includes a cooling system having a temperature sensor therein to produce a signal which is applied to said controller to so modify the fuel-air ratio as to enrich said fuel under cold temperature conditions.   4. an automatic control system, as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3, further including a vacuum switch coupled to said manifold to produce a switching action in said controller in the absence of a vacuum to effect choking.   5. a system as claimed in any of the preceding claims, wherein said means to sense differential pressure includes a tap at the upper end of the venturi structure and tap at the throat thereof.     6. a system as claimed in any of the preceding claims, further including a foot-operated throttle in the inlet to the intake manifold.   7. a system as claimed in any of the preceding claims, further including a fixed orifice in said fuel supply means to assure a minimum main feed thereof.   8. a system as claimed in any of the preceding claims, further including a booster pump to supply pressurised air to said venturi structure.   9. a system as claimed in claim 8, wherein said fuel metering valve is a pressure-regulating valve, and further including pump means to supply fuel from a reservoir through said valve.   10. a system as claimed in any of the preceding claims, further including means to regulate the rate of change of the auxiliary signal to provide a performance free of hesitation through the transitions encountered in varying modes of operation.   11. a system as claimed in any of the preceding claims, further including means to regulate the rate of change of the auxiliary fuel supply to provide smooth and economical performance through varying modes of  operation.   12. an automatic control system for supplying a fuel-air mixture to the inlet of the intake manifold of the internal combustion engine of a vehicle for regulating the ratio of air to fuel so that this ratio is optimised for prevailing conditions of engine speed and load, said system comprising:  a a variable venturi structure whose input is coupled   to.a    source of combustion air and whose output is coupled to the inlet of said intake manifold, said structure including a throat and a mechanism to adjust the effective area thereof;  b a signal-responsive closed process control loop including a servo motor coupled to said mechanism to adjust the effective area of said venturi throat; ;  c means to sense the velocity of air passing through said venturi structure to produce an air velocity command signal which is applied to the input of said loop to cause said servo motor to effect an adjustment in accordance therewith;  d means including a metering valve to feed fuel into said venturi structure to be intermixed with said air therein;  e means to adjust said valve in accordance  with the degree of vacuum in said intake manifold; and  f means responsive to the valve adjustment to produce a signal that reflects said degree of vacuum and to modulate said command signal with said vacuum signal to provide the desired air-to-fuel ratio.   13. a system as claimed in claim 12, wherein said variable venturi structure is constituted by a cylindrical casing provided with a stationary ring having an internal venturi configuration that defines a throat that surrounds the outlet of a venturi booster also having an internal venturi configuration, and a cylindrical spool having an external/internal venturi configuration that is axially shiftable with respect to the outlet of the booster to vary the constriction of the throat.    14. a system as claimed in claim 13, further including a lever pivoted on said casing and operatively coupled to said spool, said lever being swung by said servo motor to shift the spool position.   15. a system as claimed in claim 13 or claim 14, wherein said fuel is fed into the venturi structure by a nozzle located at the inlet to said booster to feed fuel downwardly through said booster.     16. a system as claimed in any of claims 13 to 15, wherein said fuel is fed into said venturi structure by a spray jet at the head of a fuel pipe coaxially centered within said casing and extending into said booster.   17. a system as claimed in claim 16, wherein said spray jet emits fuel at right angles to the direction of air flow through said booster.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
