<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0015107
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800903
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B60J-7/08 B60P-7/02 B60J-7/16 B60J-7/14 B60P-7/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
refuse carrying vehicle.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
craven tasker sheffield ltdgb<sep>craven tasker (sheffield) limited<sep>craven tasker (sheffield) limitedstaniforth roaddarnall sheffield s9 4llgb<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
mellors normangb<sep>mellors, norman<sep>mellors, norman469 whirlowdale roadsheffieldgb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a vehicle for carrying baled refuse and including a fixed  side wall a drop down side wall (16) and a pivotable roof  structure (18), the roof structure including a panelled portion  (24) and an area of flexible sheeting (26) extending between  the panelled portion (24) and the upper edge of the fixed side  wall (14).  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
refuse carrying vehicle the invention relates to a vehicle for carrying refuse to a tipping site or dump in the form of bales. baled refuse is invariably extremely foul smelling and dirty. in addition, the bales are usually held together in a very tenuous manner, that is to say with very little cohesion between the substances of which they are composed, so that it is necessary for the vehicle which is to carry them to be ¯totally enclosed when travelling on the road. a conflicting requirement is that the bales must be able to be quickly and easily unloaded from the vehicle at the tip or dump where they are to be stacked for consolidation of the rubbish. the invention as claimed is intended to provide ab remedy and seeks to solve the problem of how to transport baled refuse quickly and safely to a tipping site or dump, that is to say by the provision of a load-carrying vehicle which will be very stable when loaded and also when travelling empty. the advantages offered by the invention are mainly that by virtue of a drop down side wall being devoid of upstanding posts or pillars intermediate the ends of the body the bales of refuse can very easily be removed by fork lift trucks. a further advantage offered by the invention resides in the fact that the design of the roof structure affords the greatest possible safeguards against loose items of refuse blowing away and allows unimpeded removal of the bales of refuse at the tipping site or dump whilst offering the smallest possible area against which side winds can act when in its raised position. yet a further advantage offered by the invention is that a safety device associated with the roof structure ensures that the vehicle can be operated with safety, for example in windy or gusty conditions. one way of carrying out the invention is described in detail below with reference to the drawings in which: fig. 1 is a perspective view on one side of a loadcarrying vehicle embodying the invention; fig. 2 is a schematic rear view thereof; fig. 3 is a perspective view on the other side of the vehicle; fig. 4 is a perspective view, drawn to a somewhat larger scale than figs. 1 to 3, which illustrates one of a plurality of securing devices for a plurality of dropdown doors with which the vehicle is provided; fig. 5 is a sectional view on the line 5-5 in fig. 4; fig. 6 is a view similar to fig. 4 showing the securing device in a released condition; and fig. 7 is a detail view which illustrates a safety device which will presently be described. referring now to figs. 1 to 3 of the drawings, the load-carrying vehicle there illustrated is a semi-trailer type vehicle having a body generally indicated 10. the body 10 has a flat floor 12, a fixed longitudinal side wall 14 and an oppositely disposed drop-down longitudinal side wall
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims   1. a vehicle for carrying baled refuse to a tipping site or dump, the vehicle having a body with a flat floor; a longitudinal side wall which is fixed with respect to said flat floor; an oppositely disposed dropdown longitudinal side wall; and openable rear doors through which the bales of refuse can be loaded into the vehicle, characterised in that the vehicle is provided with a roof structure (18) which is pivotally movable, by power-operated means (20), about an axis extending longitudinally of the vehicle in the region of the height of the floor (12), the roof structure (18) including a panelled portion (24) overlying and engageable with the drop-down side wall and also including an area of flexible sheeting (26) extending between said panelled portion and an upper edge of the fixed longitudinal side wall (14).   2. a vehicle according to claim 1 in which the dropdown side wall is constituted by a plurality of drop-down doors (13), and the body (10) is devoid of upstanding posts intermediate its ends whereby that side of the body    (10)    can be completely opened to allow unimpeded access, the drop-down doors (13) being pivotally mounted about fixed axes spaced below the floor height of the body and securing devices for said doors being located in the  region of the floor height of said body.   3. a vehicle according to claim 2, in which the securing devices include respective latch elements (38) pivotally connected to the body (10) of the vehicle, a part of each latch element being capable of limited movement towards or away from the pivotal connection whereby a keyhole shaped apert#ure (42) in the latch element (38) can be engaged with a mushroom shaped head (44)-of a projec#ting pin (46), the arrangement being such that when the doors (13) have been closed, the latch elements (38) can be pivoted upwards to partially overlie marginal -edge portions of the doors (13) and to bring the mushroom shaped heads (44) of the projecting pins (46) through the wider parts of the keyhole shaped apertures  (42) in the latch elements (38),  said latch elements (38) then-being allowed to fall vertically downwards through a limited distance to bring a narrower part of each keyhole shaped   aperture    (42) into   engagement-with    a stem portion of the projecting pin-concerned, 4. a vehicle according to claim 3, in which the part of each latch element (38) which has been said to be capable of limited movement towards or away from its pivotal connection is arranged to be so by virtue of a pivot pin  (36) constituting the connection extending through an elongate aperture (40) in the latch element (38).     5. a vehicle according to claim 4, in which said pivot pin (36) forms part of a pivotal connection by means of which an immediately adjacent drop-down door (13) is connected to the body (10) of the vehicle.      6.    a vehicle according to claim 1, in which the poweroperated means (20) for pivotally moving the roof structure (18) between a closed position in which it closely overlies the body (10) and an open position in which it is raised clear of the body (10) includes a hydraulic ram (32).   7. a vehicle according to claim 1 in which the roof structure (18) is carried by at least a pair of cranked arms (28) connected to the power-operated means (20), said cranked arms (28) being disposed at spaced locations between the ends of the body (10).   8. a vehicle according to claim 7, in which the fixed side wall (14) of the body has pockets (30) for accommodating the arms (28) when the roof structure (18) has been moved to the closed position.   9. a vehicle according to claim 7 provided with a safety device associated with one of the cranked arms (28), the safety device being constituted by a link member (48) pivotally connected near one end to said cranked arm (28), the arrangement being such that when the roof structure (18) has been closed and the arms (28)  lie close to the fixed side wall (14) the other end of the link member (48), which at that time is upwardly inclined, rests against the side wall (14) so that as the roof structure (18) is subsequently raised, and the arms (28) gradually move away from the side wall (14), the link member (48) slides down the side wall   (14)    until it reaches a horizontal position from where it is able to fall freely, over-centre,   into an operative position in which a projecting detent peg (52) carried by said other end of the link member (48) engages an abutment member  (56) carried by the fixed side wall (14) of the vehicle, means being provided for rendering the safety device inoperative when it is again desired to close the roof structure (18).  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
