<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0007096
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800123
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
H02G-15/00 H02G-15/06 H02G-15/22 H02G-15/02 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
outlet for sealing ends for cables.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
pirelliit<sep>industrie pirelli s.p.a.<sep>industrie pirelli s.p.a.piazzale cadorna, 5i-20123 milanit<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
fazio erminioit<sep>fazio, erminio<sep>fazio, erminiovia don sturzo, 15bresso (milan)it<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
an improved outlet for sealing ends, particularly suitable  for low and medium voltages, comprising at least an insulator  (14) surrounding the conductor (11) and a lug (16) aligned with  the end of the conductor and contacting said conductor, said  insulator and said lug being fastened to each other by means  of at least one inner elongated element (20), provided at one  end with means (22) for engaging with the insulator, and at  the other end, with means (24, 25, 26) able to engage with the  lug.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
outlet for sealir.g ends for cables the present invention refers to an improvement for sealing ends, particularly suitable to be applied on electric cables having conductors provided with.an extruded insultation or with an insulsstion of paper impregnated with an impregnating compound, especially, but not exclusively, for low and medium voltages. as known, a sealing end outlet for cables having a conductor provided with an extruded insulation, comprises essentially an insulator, surrounding at least the insulated end portion of the conductor, a lug aligned and in contact with the free bare end of said conductor and means for fastening the lug to the insulator. according to the technique in use, the fastening means are, generally, realized by equal and opposed flanges, one being connected to the insulator and the other to the lug. said flanges are tightened the one against the other by means of screws passing through corresponding holes placed along the outer circumference of the flanges themselves. this type of sealing end outlet has, however, several drawbacks. in fact the flanges must have dimensions suitable for each insulator, that is for each cable type. it follows the need to have great supplies of flanges according to all the necessities which can occur. furthermore, the enviroment factors te.nd to exert a cor rosive action on the metallic parts under tension. it is therefore necessary that the flanges and the screws be made of an anticorrosive material (for example aluminium bronze). this involves a non-indifferent economical charge, taking into account that the flanges have a rather great diameter and thickness, able to provide the sealing end outlet with a sufficient stability and a mechanical resistance. moreover, the tightening of the screws is never able to guarantee an absolutely uniformly distributed pressure between the contacting surfaces of the flanges. consequently, there is the risk of infiitration of water or of other pollution fluids, as well as the formation of preferential etching points for the corrosions. sometimes, the asymmetrical distribution of the tightening forces can be responsible for the breaking of the insulator during the assembling phase. in the case in which the cable has a conductor insulated with paper impregnated with an impregnating compound, its sealing end outlet can differ from that aforesaid, because between the two flanges of which the lug and the insulator are provided, an expansion tank can be arranged. this latter is a bag able to absorb the volume variations that the impregnating compound undergoes because of the cable thermal transients. said expansion tank consists generally of a cylindrical container whose bases have two circular holes which allow the tank to be positioned around the free end of the conductor. the tank is integral with the lug and the insulator by means of adjustable tie rods, arranged outside of said tank and passing through corresponding holes provided in the edge of the insulator and lug flanges. of course, the sealing end outlet for cables having a condutor insulated with an impregnating compound, has all the drawbacks above cited
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
patent claims:   1. improved outlet for sealing ends, particularly suit  able for low and medium voltages, comprising at least:  an insulator (14) surrounding at least the insulated  end portion of the conductor (11), being the head end  of said insulator provided with an annular flange (15),  integral with it, protruding inwards; a lug (16)  aligned with the conductor free end and contacting  said conductor;  said sealing end outlet being charac  terized  by the fact that the lower part of said lug (16) is  provided integrally and coaxially with an end cap (18),  having a concavity (19) faced to the insulator (14),  said insulator and said lug being fastened to each  other   by means    of at least an elongated element (20),  provided at one end with means for engaging with said  annular flange (15) of said insulator, and, at the  other end with means able to engage with said end cap  in said concavity.   2. improved outlet for sealing ends according to claim 1,  characterized by the fact  that said elongated element (20) is a tubular body  surrounding coaxially said conductor (11) and having  a cylindrical wall provided with at least one through  hole (21).   3. improved sealing end outlet according to claim 1 or 2,  characterized by the fact  that said means,able to engage with said annular fange  (15), consist of an annular shoulder (22) protruding  outwards and abutting against the inner surface of  said annular flange, a first seal (23) being placed  between said shoulder and said annular flange.   4. improved sealing end outlet according to any of the  preceding claims, characterized by the fact    that said means able to engage with said end cap (18)  in said concavity (19) consist of at least a thread  (24) provided on said other end, said thread engaging  with a nut (25) arranged in said concavity.   5. improved sealing end outlet according to claim 4,  characterized by the fact  that said means able to engage with said end cap (18)  comprise also an annular bearing (26) surrounding  said tubular body (20) and clamped at least between  the annular surface of said nut (25) faced to the in  sulator (14) and a lying below annular surface.   6. improved sealing end outlet according to claim 5,  characterized by the fact  that said lying below annular surface is the outer  surface of said annular flange (15).    7. improved sealing end outlet according to claim 5,  characterized by the fact  that said annular bearing (26) is also clamped by an  annular surface (28)   cf    the said end cap (18) faced  to the insulator (14).    8. improved sealing end outlet according to any one of  the preceding claims, charaterized by the fact  that said concavity (19) of said end cap (18) has such  dimensions to entirely contain at least said nut (25)  and said annular bearing (26).    9. improved sealing end outlet according to claim 7 or 8,  characterized by the fact  that a second o-ring seal (30) is inserted between  the annular bearing surface faced to the lug (16) -and  and the annular surface (28) of said end cap (18).   10. improved sealing end outlet according to claim 6,  characterized by the fact    that a third   o-ring    seal (31) is inserted between said  annular bearing (26) and said lying below annular sur  face.   11. improved sealing end outlet according to any one of  the preceding claims, characterized by the fact  that said end cap (18) is made of anticorrosive  material.   12. improved sealing end outlet according to claim 11,  characterized by the fact  that said anticorrosive material is aluminium bronze.   13. improved sealing end outlet according to claim 12,  characterized by the fact  that said end cap (18) is provided with at least a  through duct (32) hermetically sealed.   14. improved sealing end outlet according to any one of  the claims from 1 to 5 and from 7 to 13, characterized  by the fact  that an expansion tank (34) of insulated material is  inserted, coaxially to said elongated element (20),  between said end cap (18) and said insulator (14).   15. improved sealing end outlet according to claim 14,  characterized by the fact  that said tank (34) comprises an upper base or lid  (39) constituting the lying below annular surface for  supporting said annular bearing (26).    16. improved sealing end outlet according to claim 14 or  15, characterized by the fact  that said tank (34) is provided with at least one  view window.   17. improved sealing end outlet according to claims   14     and 15, characterized by the fact    that said tank (34) is of a transparent material.   18. improved sealing end outlet according to claim 17,  characterized by the fact  that the outer surface of said tank is provided with  at least one fin of transparent material.      19.    improved sealing end outlet according to claim 18,  characterized by the fact  that said at least one fin constitutes a monolitic  element with said tank.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
