<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0016880
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19801015
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<main>F16C-33/50</main> F16C-33/46 F16C-33/50 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
improvements in or relating to rolling bearings.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
torrington co<sep>the torrington company<sep>the torrington company59 field streettorrington, connecticut 06790us<sep>the torrington company<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
wakunami teruaki<sep>wakunami, teruaki<sep>wakunami, teruaki15-1-309, higashi rinkan 1-chomesagami-shi kanagawa-kenjp<sep>wakunami, teruaki  <sep>wakunami, teruaki15-1-309, higashi rinkan 1-chomesagami-shi kanagawa-kenjp<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a roller bearing cage comprises a pluralty of circumfer­ ential discontinuities (14,14′) defining a plurality of cage seg­ ments (1a,1b), each of which has end connector means  (151,161) for enabling it to be connected to a co-operating end  of an adjoining cage segment.  the connector means (151,161)  are constructed so as not to be separable in at least one of the  directions comprising the circumferential direction, the axial  direction and the radial direction and each has a circumferen­ tial clearance (b₁, b₂), which permits enlargement and reduc­ tion of the diameter of the cage.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
i)escript io:t. "improvements in or relating to rolling bearings". this invention relates to rolling bearings and is concerned especially with a roller bearing cage having a circuimferentially discontinuous construction. circumferentially discontinuous cages are known. in a bearing cage having only a single circumferential discontinuity, it is not possible to reduce the cage diameter, should circumstances so require and where the diameter of the cage is required to be enlarged, particularly where the bearing is to be assembled @ to a shaft, the discontinuous portion must often be opened to such an extent that it experiences excessive stress both at the discontinuous portion and at the diametrically opposed portions of the cage, leading to damage to the cage unless the portions concerned are given special configurations enabling then to be readily opened. in order to connect together adjoining segiaents of a circumferentially discontinuous cage of the type described above, connector means are provided at the ends of the adjoining cage segments but almost invariably those segments have been connected without circumferential clearance so that the diameter of the cage could not be enlarged nor reduced. this has led to inconvenience in that each such cage has had to be newly designed and manufactured for bearings having different roller pitch diameters, even where the rollers were equal in diameter and number. depending on the condition of use of the bearing and for example, when inner and outer races (or track members corresponding to the inner and outer races) are rotated in the sane direction at equal speeds, the rollers positioned between the inner and outer races stop their rotation and the assembly comprising the cage together with the rollers revolves in the same direction and at the same velocity as the inner and outer races. if a load is imparted to the bearing in this state, there has been a disadvantage that impressions are created in the race surfaces of the inner and outer races because the rollers are stopped between the inner and outer races. the invention seeks to overcome the disadvantages of the prior art cages and to provide a roller bearing cage which can be handled integrally as a unit, which can be commonly used within a specific range even for bearing h & :ing different pitch diameters of rollers and which prevents the creation of impressions in the race surfaces. the invention will be described further by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:- figures 1 and 2 are respectively a side view and a front view, both partly in section, of ess@ntia portie of one cage embodying the invention, figures 3 to 5 are fragmentary details, to an enlarged scale, of a roller cage connector means, figure 3 being a perspective view, figure 4 being a front view and figure 5 being a side view, figure 6 is a view corresponding to figure 3 but showing a second embodiment, figure 7 is a front view of a roller cage provided with a connector
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 cia this    1. a   rolling    bearing cage having a plurality of  circumferential discontinuities defining a plurality of  cage segments each provided at its ends with connector  means for connecting it to an adjacent segment, characterized in that each connector means (151, 161) is  constructed so as   tj    render a joined pair of segments  (la, 1b) inseparable, at least one of the directions    comprising    the   circumferential    direction, the axial  direction and the radial direction   ;m-    that   ea    said  connector means embodies a circumferential clearance (b1,  b2)   which    permits enlargement and reduction of the  diameter of the cage. .    2. a bearing cage according to claim 1, wherein  each of said   adjacent      segments    has   connector    means  constructed so as to be inseparable in two of said    direct   ions  3. a bearing cage according to claim   17    wherein  each of   said      adjacent      segments    has   connector    means  constructed so as to be inseparable in any of said  directions  4. a bearing cage according to any of claims 1 to    5,¯characterized    in that the connector means includes a    tongue    (151) at one end of the cage segment (la)  engageable in a socket (161) of the   co--operating    end of  the adjoining cage segment (1b), the tongue and socket  having complementary locking means for rendering said  cage   se·nts    inseparable in the required direction or  direction.        5.      h    bearing   cable    according to claim 4, characterized in that the   socket      ('61)    is in tart defined by one or more circumferentially directed arms (163) extending   from    the cage   segment    klb) and by a   thickened    end (164) at the end of each arm, and that the free end of the tongue (151) has one or more convex head portions (152) respectively complementary to and co-operating with the or each end (164) to constitute said locking means.      6.    a bearing cage according to claims 4 and 5, characterized in that the tongue (151) terminates at its free end in a pair of radially opposed convex head portions (152) and that the socket (161) is defined between a pair of radially spaced   arms    (163), the ends   (16't)    of the arms   (163)    serving to create a reduced entrance to said socket,  7. a bearing cage according to claims 4 and 5, characterized in that the tongue (151) extends circumferentially from one   radially.    peripheral region of the cage segment (la) and has a single convex head portion (152) directed towards the opposite radial periphery of the segment (la),   whilst    the cage segment (lb) has a   single    arm   (163)      extending    circumferentially from its peripheral region   oorresponding    to said   otposlte    radial periphery and terminating in a thickened end (164) directed radially opposite to the head   por--;-n      (152).       8. a bearing cage according to claim 7,   charact    ized in that the tongue (151) is formed intermediate its axial ends with a recess (154) and that the socket (161) is provided with a corresponding enlargement (166) of the thickened end (164) for engaging and locking in said recess.    9. a bearing cage according to claim 7, characterized in that   the    tongue (151) is of axially reduced   width    relative to the   remainder    of the cage segment (la) and is positioned   ir.t+rediate    the axial ends of said   segment     and that a similarly situated recess is provided in the cage   segment    (lb) to receive and lock with said   tongue.       10. a bearing cage according to claims 4 and 5, characterized in that the tongue (151) terminates at its free end in a pair of axially opposed convex head   port ions    (152) and that the socket (161) is defined   between    a pair of axially spaced arns (163)   having      axially    opposed thickened   ends (164)    between which is a reduced   widt'n    entrance to said   socket.       11. a bearing cage according to claims 4 and 5,   characterized    in that the tongue (151) extends circum- ferentially from one axial end region of the cage segment  (la)   and has    a   single,    axially   directed    convex head portion (152) continuing from its axially inner end in   circumferentially    spaced relation to the end of the segment itself, and that the cage segment (lb) has a single arm (163) extending circumferentially from an opposed axial end region and terminating in a thickened end (i64) which is axially opposed to   and    capable of interlocking with the head portion   (152).       12. a bearing cage as claimed in claims 4 and 5, characterized in that the cage segment (la) is provided with a pair of radially spaced, axially separated tongues  (151, 151') of reduced   axial    width relative to the remainder of the cage segment, the tongues   (151,    151') terminating in   radially    opposed convex head    portions    (152, 152') and that the cage segment (lb) is provided with a pair of axially spaced sockets (161, 161') complementary to the   tongues    (151, 151') and defined at least in part by respective circumferentially directed arms (163,   163')      terminating    in thickened ends (164,   164')    for co-operating and interlocking with the tongues (151, 151') and their head.   portions (152,   152').       13.   rolling    bearing   case.    constructed and arranged substantially as hereinbefore described, with reference to and as illustrated in the   accompanying    drawings.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
