<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0011946
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800611
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<main>A61N-1/362</main> A61N-1/372 A61N-1/362 A61N-1/08 A61N-1/37 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
programmable medical device.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
medtronic incus<sep>medtronic, inc. <sep>medtronic, inc.3055 old highway eightminneapolis minnesota 55440 us  <sep>medtronic, inc.<sep>medtronic, inc.3055 old highway eight p.o. box 1453; minneapolis minnesota 55440<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
hartlaub jerome t<sep>mcdonald ray s<sep>shearon lawrence w<sep>hartlaub, jerome t.<sep>mcdonald, ray s.<sep>shearon, lawrence w.<sep>hartlaub, jerome t.2133 erin courtnew brighton minnesota 55112us<sep>mcdonald, ray s.2241 marion streetst. paul minnesota 55113us<sep>shearon, lawrence w.2820 north huronroseville minnesota 55113us<sep>hartlaub, jerome t.<sep>mcdonald, ray s.<sep>shearon, lawrence w.<sep>hartlaub, jerome t.2133 erin court; new brighton minnesota 55112<sep>mcdonald, ray s.2241 marion street; st. paul minnesota 55113<sep>shearon, lawrence w.2820 north huron; roseville minnesota 55113<sep>hartlaub, jerome t.2133 erin courtnew brighton minnesota 55112us<sep>mcdonald, ray s.2241 marion streetst. paul minnesota 55113us<sep>shearon, lawrence w.2820 north huronroseville minnesota 55113us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a programmable medical device, e. g.  a cardiac  pacemaker, utilizes digital circuitry 40 for controlling the pro­ vision of cardiac stimulating pulses and analog circuitry 42 for  providing clocks, an output circuit and heart activity sensing.   digital circuit 40 includes a memory in which may be prog­ rammed on a permanent or temporary basis from an external  programmer control information relating to rate, pulse width,  pulse amplitude, refractory period, sense amplifier sensitivity  and the mode of operation desired.  in addition the output can  be inhibited or a threshold margin test can be performed in  which a reduced energy output pulse is provided to check if  heart capture is lost.  the pacemaker can operate in a hys­ teresis mode and provides a high rate limit which can how­ ever be exceeded by programming.  the pacemaker further  includes means for signalling the acceptance of a program­ ming signal and means to reset the program acceptance cir­ cuit if extraneous signals are detected as programming sign­ als.  the acceptance circuit checks for the receipt of the proper  number of signals within a given time, for an access code and  correct parity.  timing is by means of a crystal oscillator and a  voltage controlled oscillator controls pulse width to obtain  energy compensation with varying battery voltage.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
progranmable medical device this invention relates to a programmable medical device such as an implantable cardiac pacemaker can able of being programmed in a variety of different states. the art of implantable cardiac pacemakers was first disclosed by greatbatch in united states patent 3,057,356 entitled "medical cardiac pacemaker", which issued in 1962. the device disclosed by greatbatch included a relatively simple relaxation oscillator that generated electrical pulses at a fixed rate. these pulses were applied to the heart through a lead consisting of a conductor wire and an electrode to cause the heart to contract each time a pulse occurred. since 1962, many improvements to cardiac pacemakers have occurred. these improvements include increased sophistication to the circuitry, including the inclusion of a sense amplifier to interact with the oscillator in providing stimulating pulses only when needed (the demand pacemaker), features to improve the reliability and longevity of pacemakers, improved packaging techniques, better power sources and improved leads and conductors. another improvement which has occurred since greatbatch first disclosed the implantable cardiac pacemaker is means to allow the pacemaker to be reprogrammea after it has been implanted. in united states patent 3,805,796 in the name of reese terry, jr. et al, entitled 11implantable cardiac pacer having adjustable operating parameters", which issued in 1974, circuitry is disclosed to allo the rate of the pacemaker to be noninvasively changed after it has been implanted. the rate varies in response to the number of times a magnetically operable reed switch is closed. the terry et al device operates by counting the number of times the reed switch is closed and storing that count in a binary counter. each stage of the counter is connected to either engage or bypass one resistor in a serially connected resistor chain, which chain is a part of the rc time constant controlling the pacemaker rate. the concept of the terry et al device has been improved upon by the apparatus shown in united states pat- ent 4,066,086 in the name of john m. adams et al, entitled "programmable body stimulator", which issued in 1978, and wrick discloses a programmable cardiac pacemaker that responds to the application of radio frequency (rf) pulse rusts while a magnetic field held in close proximity to a magnetically operated reed switch included within the pacemaker package holds the reed switch closed in the adams al alcircuit, again only the rate is programmable in response to the number of rf pulse bursts applied. the use of radio frequency signals to program cardiac pacemaker was first disclosed by wingrove in the united states patent 3,833,005 entitled "compared count digitally controlled pacemaker" which issued in 1974. the wingrove device was capable of having both the rate and pulse width programmed. however, no pacemaker has ever been described which is capable of having more than two parameters programmed or se lected features or tests programmed on command. such a pacemaker could be called a universally programmable pacemaker. one area where cardiac pacing technology has lagged behind conventional
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
    claims        1. a programmable medical device capable of being programmed by a programming signal received from an external source, characterised by permanent memory means for storing programming signal data for controlling the operating conditions of the medical device for an indefinite time period, temporary memory means for storing programming signal data for controlling the operating conditions of the medical device for a temporary time period, detector means for detecting the programming signal and providing the signal data for controlling the operating conditions of the medical device and a further signal indicative of whether the device is to be permanently or temporarily programmed with the received signal data, and logic circuit means responsive to the further signal for applying the signal data to the permanent or temporary memory means.    2. a device as claimed in claim 1 wherein said programmable operating conditions include a plurality of different modes or parameters each of which can be programmed to a different value; wherein each programming signal manifests one mode or parameter to be changed, a value to which said mode or parameter is to be changed and whether such change is to be permanent or temporary; and wherein said detector means includes input means for detecting said programming signal and for providing mode or parameter, data and status signals manifesting respectively the mode or parameter to be changed, the value to which that mode or parameter is to be changed and whether that change is to be temporary or permanent, said mode or parameter and data signals being applied to said second memory means and said status signal being applied to status decoding means for providing said further signal.    3. a device as claimed in claim 1 or 2 wherein said logic means responds to said detector means for transferring certain of the signal data in said temporary memory means to said permanent memory means if the further  signal indicates a permanent operating condition change is to be programmed and for providing said certain signal data of said temporary memory means to said medical device in place of the signal data applied thereto from said permanent memory means in the event the further signal indicates a temporary operating condition change is programmed.    4. a device as claimed in any preceding claim in the form of a body stimulator comprising a pulse generator having oscillator means for providing stimulating pulses to body tissue in a mode and having parameters controlled by signal data stored in said permanent or temporary memory means.    5. a device as claimed in any preceding claim wherein said logic means includes gate means responsive to signals from said permanent memory means manifesting the data stored therein and to signals from said temporary memory means manifesting the data stored therein, for providing said permanent memory signals to control said device whenever said further signal indicates that a permanent operating condition is to be programmed and provides said temporary memory means signals to control said device whenever said further signal indicates that a temporary operating condition is to be programmed.    6. a device as claimed in any preceding claim wherein said said logic circuit means includes parameter decoding means responsive to the parameter signals provided from said temporary memory means for providing a signal manifesting the one parameter to be changed; and first gate means responding to both said parameter decoding means signal and said further signal for providing signals to said permanent memory means to cause the data stored in said temporary memory means to be either stored in said permanent memory means or to be provided to control said device.    7. a device as claimed in claim 6 wherein said logic circuit means further includes second gate means  responsive to the data stored in said permanent memory means, the data stored in said temporary memory means and the first gate means signals for providing said permanent memory means signals to control said device whenever said first gate means signals do not indicate a temporary programming change is to occur, for providing said temporary memory means signals to control said device whenever said first gate means signals indicate a temporary programming change is to occur and for storing the data stored in said temporary memory means in said permanent memory means whenever said first gate signals indicate a permanent programming change is to occur.    8. a device as claimed in claim 6 or 7 wherein said permanent memory means includes a portion dedicated to storing data for each parameter to be changed; wherein said parameter decoding means provides a plurality of different signals, each of which manifest one parameter to be changed and one mode of change; and wherein each parameter portion of said permanent memory means responds to the parameter decoding means signals manifesting the parameter to which that portion is dedicated.    9. a device as claimed in claims 7 and 8 when dependent on claim 2 wherein said status decoding means includes means for providing a continuous signal whenever a temporary change is to occur; and wherein said parameter decoding means responds to said continuous signal by providing a continuous signal to enable said second gate means to provide said temporary memory means signals.    10. a device as claimed in claims 4 and 9 wherein said status decoding means includes means for providing a pulse signal of a duration less than the time between stimulating pulses whenever a permanent change is to occur; and wherein said parameter decoding means responds to said pulse signal to enable said second gate means to store the temporary memory means data in the permanent memory means.      11. a device as claimed in any preceding claim   i-    cluding means for eventually automatically reverting the device to control by said permanent memory means even if no permanent storage of the temporarily stored data has taken place.    12. a device as claimed in claims 2 and 11   include    ing switch means which must be actuated to enable said device to respond to said programming signal; and means to prevent said further signal indicating temporary programming upon the   initialization    of said switch means.    13. a device as claimed in any preceding   claim    wherein said detector means includes means for detecting the applied   programming    signals, means for determining the accuracy of said detected signals, and for providing a signal manifesting determined accuracy, and means for   provided    said further signal not prior to said determined accuracy signal, manifesting whether said new operating   condilio,    is to be temporary or permanent, said mode signal being   pro#ideo    for a selected time wherein said temporary memory means includes gate means which is enabled by said determined accuracy signal to apply signals from said detecting means to be stored in said temporary memory means;   and wherein said permanent memory means includes gate means which is   enabled    to receive and store signals from said temporary   meo    means upon the occurrence of said determined accuracy signal and said further signal manifesting a permanent new operating condition, said gate means further being enabled to provide a signal related to the signal stored by said temporary memory means to control said device whenever said further signal manifests a new temporary operating condition and   fur-    ther being enabled to provide a signal related to the signal stored by said permanent memory means to control said device whenever said further signal does not manifest      ne;ç tepgr-    ary operating condition  
</CLAIMS>
<CLAIMS>
1. a programmable medical device capable of being  programmed by a programming signal received from an  external source, comprising permanent memory means (140)  for storing programming signal data for controlling the  operating conditions of the medical device for an  indefinite time period, temporary memory means (132) for  storing programming signal data for controlling the  operating conditions of the medical device for a temporary  time period, detector means (108, 110, 116, 130, 136) for  detecting the programming signal and providing the signal  data for controlling the operating conditions of the  medical device and a further signal indicative of wheter  the device is to be permanently or temporarily programmed  with the received signal data, and logic circuit means  (138, 140c, d, f, g) responsive to the further signal  for applying the signal data to the temporary memory  means, for providing said certain signal data of  said temporary memory means to said medical device in place  of the signal data applied thereto from said permanent  memory means in the event the further signal indicates a  temporary operating condition change is to be programmed  and for transferring  certain of the signal data in said temporary memory means  to said permanent memory means if the further signal  indicates a permanent operating condition change is to be  programmed.    2. a device as claimed in claim 1 wherein  said programmable operarting conditions include  a plurality of different modes or parameters  each of which can be programmed to a different  value; wherein each programming signal manifests  one mode or parameter to be changed, a  value to which said mode or parameter is to be  changed and wheter such change is to be permanent  or temporary; and wherein said detector  means includes input means (108, 110, 116)  for detecting said programming signal and for  providing mode or parameter, data and status  signals manifesting respectively the mode or  parameter to be changed, the value to which  that mode or parameter is to be changed and  whether that range is to be temporary or permanent,  said mode or parameter and data  signals being applied to said temporary memory  means and said status signal being applied to  status decoding means for providing said further  signal. 3. a device as claimed in any preceding claim  in the form of a body stimulator comprising a  pulse generator having oscillator means (152,  154, 156, 158) for providing stimulating pulses  to body tissue in a mode and having parameters  controlled by signal data stored in said  permanent or temporary memory means. 4. a device as claimed in any preceding claim  wherein said logic circuit means includes gate  means (140c, d, f, g) responsive to signals  from said permanent memory means manifesting  the data stored therein and to signals  from said temporary memory means manifesting  the data stored therein, for providing  said permanent memory signals to control said  device whenever said further signal indicates  that a permanent operating condition is to be  programmed and for providing said temporary  memory means signals to control said device  whenever said further signal indicates that a  temporary operating condition is to be programmed. 5. a device as claimed in any preceding claim  wherein said said logic circuit means includes  parameter decoding means (138a―k) responsive  to the parameter signals provided from said  temporary memory means for providing a signal  manifesting the one parameter to be changed;  and first gate means (138l―bb) responding to  both said parameter decoding means signal and  said further signal for providing signal to said  permanent memory means to cause the data  stored in said temporary memory means to be  either stored in said permanent memory means  or to be provided to control said device. 6. a device as claimed in claim 5 wherein  said logic circuit means further includes second  gate means (140c, d, f, g) responsive to the  data stored in said permanent memory means,  the data stored in said temporary memory  means and the first gate means signals for providing  said permanent memory means signals     to control said device whenever said first gate  means signals do not indicate a temporary programming  change is to occur, for providing said  temporary memory means signals to control  said device whenever said first gate means  signals indicate a temporary programming  change is to occur and for storing the data  stored in said temporary memory means in data  permanent memory means whenever said first  gate signals indicate a permanent programming  change is to occur. 7. a device as claimed in claim 5 or 6  wherein said permanent memory means  includes a portion dedicated to storing data for  each parameter to be changed; wherein said  parameter decoding means provides a plurality  of different signals, each of which manifest one  parameter to be changed and one mode of  change; and wherein each parameter portion of  said permanent memory means responds to the  parameter decoding means signals manifesting  the parameter to which that portion is  dedicated. 8. a device as claimed in claim 6 and 7  when dependent on claim 2 wherein said status  decoding means includes means (130, 136) for  providing a continuous signal whenever a temporary  change is to occur; and wherein said  parameter decoding means responds to said  continuous signal by providing a continuous  signal to enable said second gate means to  provide said temporary memory means signals. 9. a device as claimed in claims 3 and 8  wherein said status decoding means includes  means (136) for providing a pulse signal of a  duration less than the time between stimulating  pulses whenever a permanent change is to  occur; and wherein said parameter decoding  means responds to said pulse signal to enable  said second gate means (140c, d) to store the  temporary memory means data in the  permanent memory means. 10. a device as claimed in any preceding  claim including means (126) for eventually  automatically reverting the device to control by  said permanent memory means even if no permanent  storage of the temporarily stored data  has taken place. 11. a device as claimed in claims 2 and 10  including switch meand (46) which must be  actuated to enable said device to respond to  said programming signal; and means to prevent  said further signal indicating temporary programming  upon the initialization of said switch  means. 12. a device as claimed in any preceding  claim wherein said detector means includes  means (108, 110, 116) for detecting the  applied programming signals, means (114, 118,  122, 124) for determining the accuracy of said  detected signals, and for providing a signal  manifesting determined accuracy, and means  (130, 136) for providing said further signal not  prior to said determined accuracy signal, manifesting  whether said new operating condition is  to be temporary or permanent, said mode signal  being provided for a selected time wherein said  temporary memory means includes gate means  (132a, e) which is enabled by said determined  accuracy signal to apply signals from said  detecting means to be stored in said temporary  memory means; and wherein said permanent  memory means includes gate means (140c, d,  f, g) which is enabled to receive and store  signals from said temporary memory means  upon the occurence of said determined  accuracy signal and said further signal manifesting  a permanent new operating condition,  said gate means further being enabled to  provide a signal related to the signal stored by  said temporary memory means to control said  device whenever said further signal manifests a  new temporary operating condition and further  being enabled to provide a signal related to the  signal stored by said permanent memory means  to control said device whenever said further  signal does not manifest a new temporary  operating condition. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
