<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0016467
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19801001
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
H01H-85/055 H01H-85/18 H01H-85/08 H01H-37/00 H01H-85/06 H01H-85/042 H01H-85/11 H01H-85/00 H01H-85/157 H01H-37/76 H01H-85/165 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
electric fuses employing composite metal fuse elements.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
kearney national canada ltdca   <sep>kearney-national (canada) ltd.<sep>kearney-national (canada) ltd.430 elizabeth streetguelph, n1h 6m4 ontarioca<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
braunovic milenkoca<sep>narancic vojislavca<sep>braunovic, milenko<sep>narancic, vojislav<sep>braunovic, milenko325 joliette1205longueuil, j4h 2g6 quebecca<sep>narancic, vojislav6200 bois de coulongeanjou, h1k 3z7 quebecca<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
high voltage current limiting fuse employing a composite  metal fuse element, which consists of at least two portions of  different metals (10, 12) with different electrothermal proper­ ties extending through the melt and arc zone, the two portions  being bonded to one another along their adjoining faces for  good thermal exchange.  one metal of the composite should  be of high conductivity and high melting point while the other  is of low melting point, so that melting of the low melting  point metal occurs at any and all locations along the element  when its temperature reaches the said low melting point.  the  resulting composite exhibits properties that are not the mean  of the metals employed and has a reversible resistance  characteristic thus facilitating the design of the fuse for low  current fault interruption.  an element having a low melting  temperature along its entire length results and giives essen­ tial arcing substantially simultaneously of the total element to  improve the low current clearing performance of the fuse.  the  metals are selected from the group consisting of silver, cop­ per, tin, nickel, lead, magnesium, zinc, aluminum and cad­ mium while the preferred combination is zinc and aluminum  or cadmium and silver.  a barrier may be provided between  the two portions, such as a preformed alloy layer.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
l fuse elements ield of the invention the present invention is concerned with imporovements @n or relating to electric fuses employbig composite metal fuse lets, and especially to such fuses of high voltage current limiting type. review of the prior art it is knon practice to protect an electric circuit by means of two different fuses, one of which is a current limiting fuse that will interrupt fault currents from its maximum interrupting rating to its minimum interrupting rating, and the other of which is a so-called weak link expulsion fuse that will interrupt fault currents a value fron slightly above the minimum interrupting current rating of the current limiting fuse. obviously it is desirable to eliminate the practice of using two fuses, but the design of fuses for interrupting low currents just above (e.g. two times or more) the maximum current rating of the fuse has been a constant problem to the fuse designers, and has added substantially to the complexity, size and cost of the fuses. fuse elements for such fuses commonly consist of one or more strips or ribbons of metal mounted in a suitable casing, and the design of such a fuse element requires the careful choice of different parameters among which are the metal from which the element is made, the dimensions of the strip or ribbon, whether or not the strip is notched or prcvided with eutectic spots (metcal effect) along its length; whether or not the element is wound on a ceramic or deionizing gas producing oore; whether or not the element consists of two different metals connected in series ; and the choice of the material surrounding the element. in a specific exarrle the ribbon may be of silver and provided along its length with up to about 100 notches,or holes, each of which is the potential site for melting and the initial formation of an arc; the element is completely buried in quartz sand which acts to absorb the energy generated by the arcs, and also to receive the melted element material. the choice of the metal to be used is always difficult, since each metal usable in commercial practice has its own advantages and disadvantages. for example, silver has a desirable high conductivity and resistance to oxidation, but has a high melting point (9600c), and a high heat of evaporation and is costly. when spots of tin are soldered along the silver element to make use of the so-called metcalf or m-effect a eutectic alloy is formed, the melting temperature being lower at the spot (approximately 230 c) to make the fuse applicable for low current operation, but such spots exhibit with time a nonreversible change under the effect of non-melting current flows that can lead to damage of the fuse. additionally, while the spot initiates a single melt and subsequent arc at its location, approximately 7000c greater temperature is required to result in further melting of the silver sufficient to interrupt the high voltage circuit. the added time required
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
a current limitting electric   @nse    for   @@     least 1000 volts comprising:  a tubular housing   of      insulating    material;  two spaced terminals mounted on said housing for connection of the fuse in an electric   circuit:     at least one metal fuse element mounted within the housing with the two ends of each   element    connected respective  the said two terminals to from a respective conducting pat therebetween;  each fuse element being embdded in and surrounded:  silica sand disposed within the hausing:  characterized   in    that:  each fuse element comprises at least two separate portions, each of which portions   provided    a corresponding continuous current   carrying      patc    between   the    said   terminals;    at least two of the said portions are of two ddifere respected metals that are metellurically isolated from one another, each metal being present in the fuse ellément in an amount not less than   32    by volume or the total; ;  the said portions   being      bonded      to    one another    at    adjoining contacting sufaces to contitute a composite metal   element     the   said      different      metals      being    of different electric thermal properties such that each portion which is of one or t said metals will melt before the portion or portions of the at metal to increass the current density through the unmelted   po@    or portions.        2.    an electric fuse as claimed in claim 1, characterized  in that the said two metals react peritectically.    3. an electric fuse as claimed in claim 1 or 2, characterized in that the metals from the said portions are selected from the group consisting of silver, copper, tin, lead, nickel, magnesium, zinc, aluminum and cadmium.    4. an electric fuse as claimed in claim 1 or 2, characterized in that the said one metal is a low melting point metal selected  from the group consisting of tin, lead, zinc and casmium,  and the said other metal is a high melting point metal selected from the group consisting of silver, copper, nickel, magnesium and aluminum.     an electric fuse as claimed in clam   @,characterized    n that the selected metals are cadmium and   silver.      6. an electric fuse as claimed in claim 5,   characterise    in that the fuse element comprises from 90 to 50% by volume of cadmium with the balance silver.   7, an electric fuse as claimed in claim 4, characterized in that the selected metals are zinc. and   aluminum.      3 an electric fuse as claimed in claim 5, characterized tr that the fuse element comprises from 90 to 50% by volume or zinc, with the balance   aluminum.       9 an electric fuse as claimed in any one of claims   b    to s 1characterized in that there is   providec    a barrier layer   bet-een    the said adjoining contacting surfaces to inhibit alloying of the metals with one another.      10.      an    electric fuse as claimed in claim 9, characterized in that the said barrier layer consists of an alloy of the two metals.     11. an electric fuse as claimed in claim 10, characterized in that the said barrier layer consists of an aged alloy of the two metals.      12    an electric fuse as claimed in claim 9, characterize in that the said barrier layer consists of a third metal.   13. an electric fuse as claimed in claim 9, characterized in that the said barrier layer consists of an organic adhesive.   14. an electric fuse as claimed in claim 9 , characterized in that the said barrier layer consists of an oxide coating of one of the metals.   15. an electric fuse as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 14, characterized in that each fuse element portion is in the form of a single thin flat strip having two wider faces and two narrower faces, and each strip has at least one wider face adjoining and contacting a wider face of the immediately adjacent strip.     16..an electric fuse as claimed in any   @@@of    claims 1 to 14, characterized in that each fuse element portion is in the   or    of a plurality of thin flat strips, each strip having two wider faces and two narrower faces, and each strip has at least one wider face adjoining and   contact    a wider face of   tha     mediately adjacent strip, which is of a different   metal,      an    electric fuse as claimed in claim 15 or 16, characterized in that the width to thickness ratio of   each      strip      t      n   the range   8:1    to   12:1.         - an    electric fuse as claimed in any one of claims 1 to    it.    characterized in that one fuse element portion of higher melting point metal is in the form of a wire or rod or sndwich. a   sacond    fuse element   portion    of lower   melting      point    metal surrounds the saide wire or rod oand encloses it.    10. an elcetric fuse as claimed in any of claims 1 to 16.   characterized    in that each fuse element is   provided    along its length with a plurality of spaced notches to provide respect- ive sites of increased current density and   consequent    increased   temperature.      20. an electric fuse as claimed in any one of claims 1 to   1?,,    characterized by a   plurality of    coaxial helical elements each connected respectively to the said two terminals.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
