<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0015397
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800917
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<main>B41F-11/00</main> B41F-11/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
process of offset litho conversion from letterpress equipment.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
smith r p m corpus<sep>smith r.p.m. corporation<sep>smith r.p.m. corporation9040 cody, p.o. box 12205overland park, kansasus<sep>smith r.p.m. corporation  <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
smith gary r<sep>smith, gary r.<sep>smith, gary r.9040 cody, p.o. box 12205overland park, kansasus<sep>smith, gary r.<sep>smith, gary r.9040 cody, p.o. box 12205overland park, kansasus<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
web letterpress equipment is converted to offset li­ thographic equipment by modification of a driven letter­ press impression cylinder (9) to receive an offset blanket  (14a), thereby producing an offset blanket cylinder (15a).   a letterpress plate cylinder (3) is modified to become an  offset plate cylinder (17a) with accompanying offset in­ king and dampening equipment (18a).  in one embodiment  a driven letterpress plate cylinder of a color hump is packed  to become an offset impression cylinder cooperating with  the offset blanket cylinder.  in a second embodiment the  letterpress plate cylinder of the color hump is modified to  an offset color plate cylinder and a driven offset impres­ sion cylinder is added to cooperate with the offest blanket  cylinder.  in this manner at least two colors may be offset  printed on one side of a web.  when used in combination  with similarily converted letterpress plate, impression and  color hump plate cylinders, at least three colors may be  offset printed on one side of a web or multiple colors prin­ ted on opposite sides thereof.  the press tower is rewebbed  to print with proper registration in the bight between the  respective offset blanket cylinders and offset impression  cylinders.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
offset litho conversion from letterpress equipment this application relates to web printing presses and more particularly to the conversion of web letterpress equipment, of the type heretofore commonly used for printing newspapers, to offset lithographic equipment which utilizes an offset blanket to transfer the image. due in part to the considerable convenience and savings that modern methods of producing lithographic plates provide over letterpress plate methods, there has been substantial recent interest, particularly among newspapers, in converting letterpress equipment to offset lithographic equipment. in converting such letterpress equipment to offset litho, each printing unit is suitably equipped with a water dampening device whereby the necessary moisture for proper image separation is provided. also, the conversion usually involves the "packing" or "saddling" of the thin litho plates (compared to letterpress plates) to bring them up to the printing height of the letterpress plates, for which the equipment was designed. the advantages of such offset litho conversion, in comparison to investing in new web offset presses, include monetary savings and less printing down time for the change required to modernize letterpress equipment, as well as the ability to obtain additional life out of existing such equipment. however, even though the monetary savings by conversion are substantial, the cost to effect the conversion is considerable and sometimes prohibitive. this invention is concerned with reducing the cost of the conversion to the point where it becomes economical under most conditions. such conversions are of equipment which include common letterpress equipment having or adapted to receive, color humps, that is, an additional letterpress plate cylinder in a lower so that two letterpress plate cylinders are cooperating with a single letterpress blanket or impression cylinder. by way of explanation, letterpress equipment, especially newspaper web letterpress equipment, generally comprises multiple printing towers, each of which includes a letterpress plate cylinder and a letterpress impression roll or cylinder driven in cooperative relation, with the web wrapped about the impression cylinder over an included angle of about ninety to about three hundred degress, thereby utilizing the impression cylinder to aid in driving the web and maintaining registry with other printing units. certain of the printing towers have an additional letterpress plate cylinder cooperating with the letterpress impression cylinder, producing a so-called "color hump" by which a color image may be printed during the same web pass through the tower. in letterpress equipment where a "color hump" is used, the web wraps around the impression cylinder and is engaged by both plate cylinders. those towers which do not have color hump cylinders are often constructed so that such cylinders can be easily added. the amount of web wrap around the letterpress impression cylinder is believed to be far in excess of that necessary, but the letterpress equipment was so designed because this helped insure proper registration, it simplified structure and there appeared to be no appreciable adverse effects in doing so. many printing applications require the use of at least two color print, therefore it is advantageous to be able
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims      that    is claimed and desired to secure by letters patent is: 1. the process of converting conventional web letterpress  printing equipment to offset lithographic equipment  which includes the steps of:  (a) adapting a letterpress printing plate cylinder to  accept an offset plate and thereby function as an  offset plate cylinder;  (b) adding dampening and inking equipment to cooperate  with said offset plate cylinder;  (c) modifying a letterpress impression cylinder to  accept an offset blanket and thereby function as  an c-fset blanket cylinder;  (d). positioning an offset impression cylinder coop  erating with said offset blanket cylinder at a  bight removed from said offset plate cylinder; ;  (e) positively rotating said impression cylinder, such  that the speed of the surfaces of said offset  impression cylinder and said offset blanket  cylinder at said bight are substantially the same;  (f) directing a web between said offset blanket  cylinder and said offset impression cylinder; and  (g) adding conveying means for guiding said web and  properly registering said web on said blanket  cylinder.     2. the process according to claim 1 wherein:  (a) said offset impression cylinder is an adapted  existing letterpress plate cylinder.   3. the process according to claim 2 wherein:  (a) one of said letterpress plate cylinders is the  second plate cylinder of a letterpress color hump.   4. the process according to claim 1 wherein:  (a) said conveying means comprises an idler roll at  the bight exit of said offset impression cylinder  and offset blanket cylinder for guiding the web at  a predetermined wrap about said offset impression  cylinder.   5. the process according to claim 1 wherein:  (a) said offset plate cylinder is an offset black  plate cylinder; and  (b) positioning an offset color plate cylinder in  cooperative association with said offset blanket  cylinder.   6. the process according to claim 5 wherein:  (a) said offset color plate cylinder is adapted from  a letterpress color hump plate cylinder and  including the step of:  (b) adding dampening and inking equipment to cooperate  with said offset color plate cylinder.     7. the process according to claim 6 wherein:  (a) both said offset black and color plate cylinders  are spaced apart and cooperate with said offset    - #1a'nket    cylinder to transfer an image thereto; and    {b} said    web passes between said offset blanket cylinder    cylinder    impression cylinder whereby said image is  transferred to said web and two colors are offset  printed onone side of said web.     8. the process according to claim 1, 2, 3 or 4 wherein  said offset plate cylinder, said offset blanket cylinder,  said offset impression cylinder and said conveying  means represent a first offset plate cylinder, a first  offset blanket cylinder, a first offset impression  cylinder and first conveying means respectively, and  including the steps of: :  (a) adapting a second letter press printing plate  cylinder to accept a second offset plate and  thereby function as a second offset plate cylinder;  (b) adding dampening and inking equipment to cooperate  with said second offset plate cylinder;  (c) modifying a second letterpress impression cylinder  to accept a second offset blanket and thereby  function as a second offset blanket cylinder in  cooperation with said second offset plate cylinder;  (d) positioning#a second offset impression cylinder  cooperating with said second offset blanket cylinder  at a bight removed from said second offset plate  cylinder;  (e) positively rotating said second impression cylinder,  such that the speed of the surfaces of said second  offset impression cylinder and said second offset  blanket cylinder at said bight are substantially  the same; ;  (f) directing said web between said second blanket  cylinder and said second impression cylinder in  cooperation with the directing of said web between  said first blanket cylinder and said first impression    cylinder; and  -(g) adding second conveying means for guiding said web  between said first and second blanket cylinders  and properly registering said web on said second  blanket cylinder.   9. the process according to claim 8 wherein:  (a) said web has a first printing side and a second  printing side; and  (b) said second conveying means comprises an idler  roll.   10. the process according to claim 9 wherein:  (a) said web first printing side engages said first  offset blanket cylinder and said web second  printing side engages said second offset cylinder  such that an image having at least one color  therein is transferred from each of said first and  second offset blanket cylinders to each of said  first and second printing sides respectively;  whereby at least one color is offset printed on  each of said first and second printing sides.     11. the process according to claim 9 wherein:  (a) said first offset plate cylinder- is an offset  black plate cylinder; and including the steps of:  (b) positioning an offset color plate cylinder in  cooperative association with said offset blanket  cylinder but spaced apart from said offset black  plate cylinder; said offset color plate cylinder  being adapted from a letterpress color hump;  (c) adding dampening and inking equipment to cooperate  with said offset color plate cylinder; and wherein  (d) both said offset black plate cylinder and said  offset color plate cylinder cooperate to transfer  a multicolor image to said first offset blanket  cylinder.   12. the process according to claim 11 including the steps  of:  (a) engaging said web first printing side with said  first offset blanket cylinder; and  (b) engaging said web second printing side with said  second offset blanket cylinder;  (c) such that said multicolor image is offset transferred  to said web first printing side; whereby said web  first printing side is multi-color offset printed  and said web second side is offset printed.     13. the process according to   claim    12 wherein:    v i - i     (a) said web is directed first to said first offset  blanket cylinder.   14. the process according to claim 12 wherein:  (a) said web is directed first to said second offset  blanket cylinder and is substantially wrapped  thereabout.    15. the process according to claim 11 including the steps  of:  (a) engaging said web first printing side with said  first offset blanket cylinder, such that said  multi-color image is offset transferred to said  web first printing side; and  (b) engaging said web first printing side with said  second offset blanket cylinder; whereby at least  three colors are offset printed on said web first  printing side.   16. in a web letterpress printing press, the combination  of:  (a) a converted offset plate cylinder,  (b) a converted offset blanket cylinder cooperating  with said offset plate cylinder to carry an image  therefrom, and  (c) an offset impression   cylinder    cooperating with  said converted offset blanket cylinder for backing  a web contacting said offset blanket cylinder and  receiving said image therefrom.  17. the press according to claim 16 wherein:  (a) said offset impression cylinder is a converted  letterpress color plate   cylinder.      18. the press according to claim 16 wherein:  (a) said offset plate cylinder comprises an offset  black plate cylinder; and including:  (b) a converted offset color plate cylinder spaced  apart from said offset black plate cylinder and  cooperating with said offset blanket cylinder to  transfer a color image thereto, whereby said  offset blanket cylinder carries a multi-color  image.   19. the press according to claims 16, 17 or 18 wherein:  (a) said offset impression cylinder is mechanically  sychronized to said offset blanket cylinder such  that the surfaces thereof rotate at the same  speed.     20. the press according to claims 16, 17 or   1s    wherein:  (a) said offset plate cylinder, said offset blanket  cylinder, said offset impression cylinder and said  image represent a first offset plate cylinder, a  first offset blanket cylinder, a first offset  impression cylinder and a first image respectively;  and including: :  (b) a second converted offset plate cylinder;  (c) a second converted offset blanket cylinder cooperating  with said offset plate cylinder to carry a second  image therefrom;  (d) a second impression cylinder cooperating with said  second offset blanket cylinder for backing a web  contacting said second offset blanket cylinder and  receiving said second image therefrom;  (e) means for sychronizing said web to register in  cooperation with both said first and second offset  blanket cylinder to transfer said first and second  images thereto.   21. the press according to claim 20 wherein:  (a) said web includes a first and a second printing  side; and  (b) at least one of said web first and second printing  sides engages each of said first and second offset  blanket cylinders.     22. the press according to claim 21 wherein:  (a) said web first printing side engages said first  offset blanket cylinder transferring said first  image in at least two colors thereto; and  (b) said web second printing side engages said second  offset blanket cylinder transferring said second  image thereto.   23. the press according to claim 21 wherein:  (a) said web first printing side engages said second  offset blanket cylinder transferring said second  image thereto and wraps substantially around said  second offset impression cylinder; and  (b) said web second printing side engages said first  offset blanket cylinder transferring said first  image thereto.   24. the press according to claim 21 wherein:  (a) said web first printing side engages both said  first and second offset blanket cylinders transferring  said first and second images thereto, whereby said  first printing side is offset; printed in at least  two colors.    25. the press according to claim 24 wherein:  (a) at least three colors are offset printed on said  web first printing side.     26. in a letterpress printing press converted to offset  lithographic printing:  (a) a letterpress impression cylinder carrying an  offset blanket;  (b) a black offset plate cylinder cooperating with  said offset blanket;  (c) a color offset plate cylinder cooperating with  said offset blanket; and  (d) an offset impression cylinder cooperating with  said offset blanket.   27. the press according to claim 26 wherein said offset  impression cylinder is positively driven and synchronized  with said offset blanket whereby the surfaces of both  travel at-the same speed.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
