<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0006401
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800109
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B01J-29/14 C07C-2/74 C07C-13/00 C07C-2/00 B01J-29/00 <main>B01J-29/14</main> 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
hydroalkylation catalyst, process for its preparation and its use in hydroalkylation.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
phillips petroleum co<sep>phillips petroleum company<sep>phillips petroleum company5th and keelerbartlesville oklahoma 74004us<sep>phillips petroleum company <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
timothy paul murtha<sep>zuech ernest adolph<sep>timothy paul murtha<sep>zuech, ernest adolph<sep>timothy paul murtha1625 macklyn lanebartlesville, oklahomaus<sep>zuech, ernest adolph1317 se harnedbartlesville, oklahomaus<sep>timothy paul murtha<sep>zuech, ernest adolph  <sep>timothy paul murtha1625 macklyn lanebartlesville, oklahomaus<sep>zuech, ernest adolph1317 se harnedbartlesville, oklahomaus<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
an aromatic hydrocarbon is contacted under hydro­ alkylation conditions and in the presence of hydrogen  with a composition comprising at least one platinum  compound supported on a calcined, acidic, nickel and  rare earth-treated crystalline zeolite which additionally  has a halide content sufficient to promote the selectivity  of the composition to produce a desired cycloalkyl aro­ matic hydrocarbon.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
hydroalkylation process and a composition and process for producing said composition the invention relates to a hydroalkylation process, a composition useful as a catalyst in said process and a method for producing said composition. prior art catalysts in the field of hydroalkylation processes suffered from several drawbacks these deficiencies of the prior art catalysts for the hydroalkylation reaction included: (1) the use of support materials for certain catalysts which are not able to withstand the teinperatures employed in a typical air burn-off regeneration operation. such regeneration operations are co onplace in the catalytic art for hydrocarbon conversions of various types and it is highly desirable that the catalyst for the hydroalkylation pro cress be stable to such typically employed regeneration conditions. (2) in the hydroalkylation of aromatic hydrocarbons to cycloalkyl aromatic hydrocarbons, a problem in terms of selectivity to the desired product is often evident. for example, in the conversion of benzene to cyclohexylbenzene, by-products such as cyclohexan and msthylcyclopentylbenzene as veil as dicyclohexylbenzene and other heavier molecules can often be produced in such quantities that the pro cess can become uneconomical. thus, a more selective hydroalkylation catalyst is desired with little or no decrease in catalyst activity. it is, however, recognized that a decrease in catalyst activity can often be tolerated if there is a concomitant increase in selectivity to the desired product. (3) a nasber of the catalysts of the prior art for the hydroalkylation reaction are prepared by very complex and time consuming processes. for example, starting with a powdered crystalline zeolite support, said support is cation exchanged, washed and then incorporated into a matrix of another material such as silica-a1u:ina. this coibination is calcined, cooled, and impregnated with certain metal salts. pinally the composite is extruded into pellets and the like. thus, it is de sirable that o more simplified and less expensive process for mating active and selective catalysts be found. (4) certain catalysts of the prior art for the bydroalkylation reaction were of fixed acidity because of the type of sup- port material utilized. this left little variation that could be made in this/ important property of the hydroalkylation catalyst. it is therefore desirable that catalysts be developed which are varied easily in their acidity charac teristics. it is an object of the present invention to hydroalkylate aromatic compounds. another object of the present invention is to provide a method for producing a composition useful as a hydroalkylation catalyst. another object of the invention is a composition useful as a catalyst in hydroalkylation reactions which is regenerated by air burn-off. another object of the invention is a composition useful as a catalyst in hydroalkylation reactions which is more active and more selective than prior art catalysts. another object of the invention is a composition useful as a catalyst in hydroalkylation reactions which is simple and less expensive to produce as compared to prior art catalysts. stilt another object of the invention is a composition useful as a catalyst in hydroalkylation reaction in which the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims   1. a catalyst composition characterized by  at least one platinum compound supported on a calcined,  acidic, nickel and rare earth-treated crystalline zeolite  which additionally has a halide content sufficient to  promote the selectivity of the composition to produce a  desired cycloalkyl aromatic hydrocarbon when said composition  is employed to contact an aromatic hydrocarbon in a hydroalky  lation reaction.   2. the composition of claim 1) characterized by the fact  that the   crystalzhe    zeolite is selected from the group  consisting of type x and type y zeolites;  the rare earth and nickel compounds employed to treat the  zeolite are selected from the group consisting of nitrates,  bromides, acetates, chlorides, iodides, sulfates and  mixtures thereof; ;  the rare earth metal is selected from the group consisting  of cerium, lanthanum, praseodymium, neodymium, samarium,  europium, gadolinium, terbium, dysprosium, holmium, erbium,  thulium, ytterbium, lutetium and mixtures thereof,  the platinum compound is selected from the group consisting  of ammonium hexachloroplatinate(iv), ammonium tetrachloro  platinate(ii), chloroplatinic acid, diaminoplatinum dinitrite,  platinic acid, platinum tetrachloride and mixtures thereof,  the halide source is selected from the group consisting of  fluorine, bromine, chlorine, iodine, carbon tetrachloride,  carbon tetraiodide, tetrachloroethylene, chloroform, bromoform,  dichloromethane, dibromoethane, difluoromethane, chloro  methane, bromomethane, 1,4-dichlorobutane, 1,4-dibromobutane,  l-chlorobutane,  l-fluorobutane,   1-bromobutane,    1,2-dichloro  ethane,   1,2-dibromoethane,    2-chloropropane, 2-bromopropane,  acetyl iodide, acetyl chloride, acetyl bromide, bromochloro  methane,   l-bromo--chlorobutane,    1,2-dichloroethylene,  1,2-dibromoethylene and mixtures thereof.   3. the composition of claim 1) characterized by the fact that  the crystalline zeolite is the alkali metal form with the  alkali metal content of the calcined, acidic, nickel and  rare earth-treated crystalline zeolite in the range of from  about 0.01 to about 2 per cent by weight of said composition;  the rare earth content of the calcined, acidic, nickel and  rare earth-treated crystalline zeolite ranges from about  2 to about 25 per cent by weight of said composition;  the nickel content of the calcined, acidic, nickel and rare  earth-treated crystalline zeolite ranges from about 0.01 to  about 15 per cent by weight of said composition; and  the halogen is chlorine or bromine.     4. the composition of claim 1) characterized by the fact  that the crystalline zeolite is the alkali metal form  with the alkali metal content of the calcined, acidic,  nickel and rare earth-treated crystalline zeolite ranges  from about 0.05 to about 1 per cent by weight of said  composition;  the rare earth content of the calcined, acidic, nickel  and rare earth-treated crystalline zeolite ranges from  about 5 to about 20 per cent by weight of said composition;  the nickel content of the calcined, acidic, nickel and  rare earth-treated crystalline zeolite ranges from about  1 to about 8 per cent by weight of said composition; and  the halogen is chlorine or bromine.   5. the composition of claim 1) characterized by the fact  that the crystalline zeolite is selected from the group  consisting of type x and type y zeolites; and  the platinum compound is chloroplatinic acid, the nickel  compound used to treat the crystalline zeolite is nickel  chloride hexahydrate, the rare earth metal compound used  to treat the crystalline zeolite is a mixture of the  chlorides of at least lanthanum, cerium, praseodymium,  neodymium, samarium and gadolinium, and the halide is  chloride.   6. a process for producing monocycloalkyl aromatic hydrocarbon  and alky-substituted monocycloalkyl aromatic hydrocarbons  characterized by contacting a monocyclic aromatic hydro  carbon under hydroalkylation and in the presence of hydrogen  with a catalyst as defined in one of claims 1) to 5).   7. the process of claim 6) characterized in that the catalyst  is treated with hydrogen prior to being contacted with  monocyclic aromatic hydrocarbon.   8. a process of claim 6) characterized in that the monocyclic  aromatic hydrocarbon is contacted with said catalyst  at a liquid hourly space velocity ranging from about 1 to  about 100, a hydrogen pressure ranging from about 690 to  about 13800 kilopascals (100 to 2000 psig), a hydrogen  feed rate ranging from about 0.1 to about 10 moles per  hour of hydrogen per mole of monocyclic aromatic hydro  carton, and a temperature ranging from about 100 to about  250 c.      9. a process of claim 6) characterized in that the  crystalline zeolite is selected from the group  consisting of type x and type y   zeolites",    and  the platinum compound is chloroplatinic acid, the nickel  compound used to treat the crystalline zeolite is nickel  chloride hexahydrate, the rare earth metal compound used  to treat the crystalline zeolite is a mixture of the  chlorides of at least lanthanum, cerium, praseodymium,  neodymium, samarium and gadolinium, and the halide is  chloride.    10. a method for the preparation of a catalyst composition  characterized by  contacting a crystalline zeolite with an aqueous cation  exchange solution comprising rare earth, nickel and  ammonium compounds;  removing the cation exchanged zeolite from said solution  and washing said zeolite with water to remove excess  ions;  calcining said cation exchanged zeolite;  cooling said calcined zeolite;  impregnating said cation exchanged zeolite with a  solution comprising at least one platinum compound in  a suitable solvent;  removing said solvent by evaporation;  said cation exchanged zeolite is calcined and then cooled  either before or after said platinum compound is impreg  nated on said zeolite; ;  and  contacting said platinum impregnated and calcined crystalline  zeolite with a halogen-containing compound in an amount  sufficient to promote the selectivity of said composition  to produce a desired cycloalkyl aromatic hydrocarbon when  said composition is used to contact an aromatic hydro  carbon in a hydroalkylation process.    11. a method of claim 10) characterized in that said  composition is treated with hydrogen subsequent to the  removal by evaporation of the platinum compound solvent.     12. a method of claim 10) characterized in that the  crystalline zeolite is selected from the group of  type x and type y zeolites; and  the platinum compound is chloroplatinic acid,  the nickel compound used to treat the crystalline  zeolite is nickel chloride hexahydrate, the rare  earth metal compound used to treat the crystalline  zeolite is a mixture of the chlorides of at least  lanthanum, cerium, praseodymium, neodymium, samarium  and gadolinium, and the halide is chlorine.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
