<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0012218
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800625
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
A46B-13/02 B60S-3/04 A46B-7/02 A46B-17/00 A47L-11/00 A46B-17/02 A47L-11/38 A46B-7/00 A46B-13/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
improved portable scrubbing tool.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
nuvite chem compoundsus <sep>nuvite chemical compounds corporation <sep>nuvite chemical compounds corporation213 freeman streetbrooklyn new york 11222us<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
bullard jamesus<sep>lester frank richardus<sep>bullard, james<sep>lester, frank richard<sep>bullard, jamesroute 2, box 64adair oklahoma 74330us<sep>lester, frank richard quail ridge condominiumsno. 424 11178 shell drake laneboynton beach florida 33436us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a lightweight pneumatic powered portable scrubbing  tool (1) is disclosed, having a scrubbing brush member (3)  that is rotated by a cylindrically-shaped elongated air pow­ ered motor (15).  the motor shaft (13) is affixed to the brush  member (3) and supports the brush member (3).  the motor  housing is pivotally connected to an elongated main support  pole (21), having an air supply hose (20) disposed therewithin  and along the length thereof.  the air supply hose exits,  through a union (24), from a peripheral portion of the main  support pole (21) and is interconnected with the motor.  a fit­ ting (17) is mounted on an opposite end of the main support  pole (21), i.  e. , remote from the motor, for interconnection  with a fluid source through an air hose (19).  an extension sup­ port pole (29) fits over the main support pole (21) and can be  extended to a preselected position along the length of the  main support pole (21).  rotation of the extension support  pole (29) in either direction relative to the main support pole  (21) permits locking of the extension pole (29) to the main  pole (21).  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
improved portable scrubbing tool background of the invention the invention relates to a portable, lightweight, and easily maneuverable scrubbing tool comprising a pneumatically powered scrubbing brush interconnected with an elongated tubular, hand-held main support pole for the cleaning or scrubbing of relatively large, irregular surfaces, such as aircraft exteriors. the scrubbing tool also has applicability to polishing, buffing, brightening, and paint stripping. in the cleaning of exterior aircraft surfaces, a detergent is sprayed onto the surface of the aircraft and then, for proper cleaning, the aircraft surface must be agitated by a brush in order to break the adhesive factor of the soil to the surface. the surface is then rinsed with water for completion of the cleaning procedure. it is known in the art to accomplish the agitation process with hand scrub brushes that are attached to wooden handles of various sizes. the cleaning operator manually agitates the surface of the aircraft by a back and forth scrubbing action which is time consuming and inefficient. certain rather sophisticated apparatus for cleaning surfaces of aircraft are known, as shown in u.s. patent no. 3,648,316. such a system requires a carriage that is positioned adjacent the aircraft and having extensible booms interconnected with the carriage. such devices are complex and costly, both to manufacture and maintain. also known in the art are a variety of rotary brushes used for cleaning a variety of surfaces. examples of such prior art brushes include those disclosed in u.s. patent nos. 1,369,567; 2,000,930; 3,074,088; 3,153,799; and 3,864,780. the present invention has advantages over these prior art brush systems as will be apparent from the description below. summary of the invention the invention relates to an improved portable scrubbing or cleaning tool, comprising a rotary scrubbing tool brush member powered by a pneumatic motor, or turbine, particularly an air-, or other noncombustible gas-, powered motor. the motor supports the scrubbing tool brush member and is narrowly shaped so as not to interfere with the surfaces to be cleaned during the cleaning operation. the motor and brush are interconnected with an elongated, tubular, main support pole to be held by the operator. the support pole is pivotally connected to the motor so that the brush member and motor unit can be angularly positioned with respect to the main support pole for cleaning difficult to reach surfaces. an extension pole fits over the main support pole and can be extended to a preselected position along the length of the main support pole. rotation of the extension pole in either direction relative to the main pole permits locking of the extension pole to the main pole. it is a primary object of the present invention to provide an improved scrubbing brush tool for cleaning large structures that have irregular, or hard-to-reach surfaces. the invention has particular utility for cleaning the exterior surfaces of aircraft, although it can be successfully employed in the cleaning of other large surfaces such as trucks, buses, buildings, and other commercial industrial cleaning jobs. the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
what is claimed is:    1. a lightweight, portable, pneumatic powered scrubbing tool comprising a brush means for brushing a surface; a pneumatic powered motor having a motor drive shaft connected to said brush means for rotating said brush means, said motor being mounted adjacent to said brush means and of a size so as not to extend beyond the periphery of said brush means, an elongated, tubular main support pole, means for pivotally connecting one end of said main support pole to said motor, a first flexible pneumatic fluid supply hose positioned substantially along the entire length of said main support pole and disposed therewithin, means for interconnecting said first flexible pneumatic fluid supply hose with said motor to provide pneumatic fluid to said motor for powering the motor, an elongated,  tubular extension support pole coaxial with said main support pole and locking means for selectively positioning and locking said extension support pole to said main support pole at selected positions along the length of the main support pole.    2. the scrubbing tool as claimed in claim 1 wherein said locking means comprises means for locking said extension support pole to said main support pole by twisting said extension support pole and main support pole with respect to each other, in either direction.      j.      tbe    scrubbing tool as claimed in claim 1 wherein said locking means comprises a substantially  cylindrical member, having a diameter substantially equal to the outer diameter of said main support pole, means for rotatably mounting said cylindrical member adjacent the end of the main support pole opposite the motor and eccentric to the major axis of the main support pole, wherein the circumferential side of the cylindrical member engages the inner surface of the extension support pole, and is rotatable by relative turning of the extension and main support poles to provide locking therebetween.    4. the scrubbing tool as claimed in claim 3 wherein said means for rotatably mounting said cylindrical member adjacent the end of the main support pole comprises a mounting block fixedly mounted within the end of the main support pole, a hollow pipe extending through the mounting block having one end positioned within the main support pole and the other end positioned outside the main support pole, said pipe displaced from the longitudinal axis of the main support pole, and means for rotatably supporting said cylindrical member about the pipe end outside of the main support pole.    5. the scrubbing tool as claimed in claim 4 wherein said first flexible pneumatic fluid supply hose is connected to said pipe end inside the main support pole.    6. the scrubbing tool as claimed in claims 4 or 5 wherein an intermediate flexible fluid supply hose is connected, at one end, to the end of the pipe outside of the main support pole, the other end of said intermediate hose connected to a quick disconnect fitting means for connection to a pneumatic fluid source.    7. the scrubbing tool as claimed in claim 6 further comprising an oiler means for providing oil to the pneumatic fluid, said oiler means connected to said intermediate hose.      8. the scrubbing tool as claimed in claim 1 wherein said motor comprises a compressed air-powered motor of substantially cylindrical shape, wherein the length of said motor is substantially greater than its diameter, said motor drive shaft extending from one end of the motor along its major axis.    9. the scrubbing tool as claimed in claim 1 wherein said means for interconnecting said first flexible pneumatic fluid supply hose with said motor comprises a second flexible pneumatic fluid supply hose, one end connected to said motor, the other end connected to a union, said union having one end disposed within said main support pole and connected to said first fluid supply hose, the other end of said union extending through an opening in the main support pole.    10. the scrubbing tool as claimed in claim 9 wherein a shut-off and control valve is interconnected with said union.    11. the scrubbing tool as claimed in claim 1 wherein said means for pivotally connecting said one end of said main support pole to said motor comprises a motor sleeve fixedly secured to said motor around the circumference thereof, said motor sleeve including a radial flange, a u-shaped bracket unitary with a cylindrical rod, said u-shaped bracket pivotally connected to said radial flange, said cylindrical rod fixedly secured within a hollow, tubular portion of said main support pole at said one end of the main support pole.    12. the scrubbing tool as claimed in claim 1 wherein said brush means comprises a scrubbing brush member having a substantially circular mounting plate, and a plurality of bristles affixed to one surface of   he    plate, at least a portion of said bristles affixed   eo    said plate adjacent the periphery thereof and directed at an angle outwardly therefrom.      13. the scrubbing tool as claimed in claim 12 wherein said plurality of bristles comprises a plurality of stiff bristles affixed to said mounting plate about the center of the plate, an annular ring of soft bristles affixed to the mounting plate about the stiff bristles, an outer annular ring of soft bristles affixed to the mounting plate about the annular ring of soft bristles, and extending to the periphery of the plate, the length of the outer annular ring of soft bristles substantially longer than the other bristles.    14. the scrubbing tool as claimed in claim 13 wherein the outer annular ring of soft bristles are affixed to the plate at an angle thereto and extending outwardly of the plate periphery.    15. the scrubbing tool as claimed in claim 1 wherein said brush means comprises a conically-shaped brush.    16. the scrubbing tool as claimed in claim 1 wherein said brush means comprises a substantially circular disc, and means for interchangeably connecting a cleaning pad thereto.    17. the scrubbing tool as claimed in claim 16, wherein said cleaning pad comprises a cloth mitten disposed about the disc.    18. the scrubbing tool as claimed in claim 16 wherein one surface of the disc is burred to frictionally engage a pad.    19. a lightweight, portable, pneumatic powered scrubbing tool comprising a scrubbing brush member having a substantially circular mounting plate, and a plurality of bristles affixed to one surface of the plate, at least a portion of said bristles affixed to said plate adjacent the periphery thereof and directed at an angle outwardly therefrom, and pneumatic powered  motor having a motor drive shaft connected to said plate for rotating said plate, said motor positioned adjacent the other surface of said plate, and of a size so as not to extend beyond the periphery of said plate, and elongated, tubular, main support pole, means for pivotally connecting one end of said main support pole to said motor,   a flexible pneumatic fluid supply hose within said main support pole extending from the other end of said main support pole and throug an opening defined in a peripheral portion of the main support pole and connected to said motor, said opening located adjacent said one end of the main support pole, a quick-disconnect pneumatic fitting connected to said fluid supply hose, said fitting mounted at the other end of said main support pole, an elongated, tubular, auxiliary support pole, and means for pivotally connecting said auxiliary support pole to said main support pole, whereby said main support pole and said auxiliary support pole are adapted to be similtaneously and manually held by an operator during a scrubbing operation.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
