<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0007078
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800123
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
C25B-11/00 C25B-9/00 C25B-9/08 <main>C25B-11/02</main> H01M-8/02 C25B-9/06 C25B-11/02 C25B-9/18 H01M-2/14 C25B-9/20 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
bipolar separator for electrochemical cells, a method for its preparation and an electrochemical cell comprising said separator.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
oronzio de nora impianti it<sep>oronzio de nora impianti elettrochimici s.p.a.  <sep>de nora permelec s.p.a.via bistolfi 3520134 milanoit<sep>oronzio de nora impianti elettrochimici s.p.a.<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
pellegri alberto<sep>spaziante placido m<sep>pellegri, alberto<sep>spaziante, placido m.<sep>pellegri, albertoviale dante 53luinoit<sep>spaziante, placido m.panclor s.a. p.o.box 30ch-6809 taverne luganoch<sep>pellegri, alberto  <sep>spaziante, placido m.<sep>pellegri, albertoviale dante 53luinoit<sep>spaziante, placido m.panclor s.a. p.o.box 30ch-6809 taverne luganoch<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
an improved electrically conductive, composite bipolar  separator for electrochemical cells comprising a molded  aggregate of an electrically conductive aggregate of pow足 dered electrically conductive material and a chemically resis足 tant resin with a vertical array of electrically conductive valve  metal ribs partially embedded in the molded aggregate at  least on the anode side and having the entire surface exposed  to the anolyte, except the area of electrical contact with the  anode, coated with a layer of a chemically resistant and elec足 trically non-conductive resin, the said ribs being arranged to  form a grid to distribute the current to the porous anode  bonded on the surface of a semi-permeable membrane or  diaphragm at a uniformly distributed multiplicity of points  over the entire anode surface and electrochemical cells con足 taining the said bipolar separator and method of producing  the said bipolar separator.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
the invention relates to a bipolar separator for electrochemical cells, a method for its preparation and an electrochemical cell comprising said separator. electrochemical cells are used as electrochemical current generators, such as primary or secondary batteries as well as electrolytic cells. recently, electrochemical devices having a solid electrolyte have been proposed particularly to be used as fuel cells. typical examples of solid polymer electrolyte cells are described in u.s. patents no. 3,134,696 and no. 4,039,409. typically, said devices comprise essentially a solid electrolyte made of a thin sheet of an ion exchange resin, and on both surfaces thereof powder catalysts are applied and incorporated into the resin and constitute the dispersed electrode of the cell. metallic screens or grids or drawn thin plates are assembled in electrical contact with the electrodes bonded to the membrane or diaphragm to supply and uniformly distribute the electric current to the dispersed electrodes, depending upon whether the apparatus is used as an electrolysis cell or an electrochemical generator. each individual cell is hydraulically separated from the adjacent cell by a partition wall or separator which supports and is electrically connected to the screen or grid current collectors so that the electrical current flows from the anode of one cell to the cathode of the adjacent cell through the said separator. the solid polymer electrolyte cells have been studied for electrolysis processes and especially for chlorine production by electrolysis of aqueous solutions of sodium chloride or hydrochloric acid but several problems such as materials of construction and configuration of the bipolar separators remain. electrolysis cells differ from gaseous fuel cells in that liquid electrolyte is circulated in the electrode compartments and at the same time the gaseous products of the electrochemical reaction are released at the electrodes. therefore, the configuration of the bipolar separator and of the current distribution means to the electrodes bonded to the membrane surface must fulfill hydrodynamic requirements to assure an effective mass transfer to and-from the electrode surfaces to avoid undesired parasitic electrode reaction moreover, the gas evolved at the electrodes must be rapidly removed from the electrode surface to avoid gas blanketing effects. bipolar separators must also be corrosion resistant for example to concentrated caustic soda on the cathode side and to hydrochloric acid and wet chlorine on the anode side. another essential requirement for the bipolar separator is a high resistance to atomic hydrogen diffusion and hydrogen embrittlement. in japanese patent application tlo. 102,27l, pbltshed on september 6, 1978 a new bipolar separator and a method of preparation thereof is described. this separator is impervious to atomic hydrogen diffusion, chemically and mechanically stable and is formed by heat and pressure molding from a mixture of powdered graphite and/or metal such as titanium, zirconium, niobium and resin, preferably thermosetting resins such as an epoxide resin in a weight ratio of 1:1 to 9:1. the separator obtaine thereby exhibits a high density of contact areas thus enhancing a good flow of the electrolyte along the surface of the electrodes bonded
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:   1. a bipolar separator for electrochemical cells, said  separator constructed and arranged for distributing  electrical current to an anode which is bonded to the  surface of a semi-permeable membrane or diaphragm,  characterized in that said separator comprises a rigid,  molded aggregate of an electrically conductive powdered  material and a chemically resistant resin with a vertical  array of electrically conductive valve metal ribs (5a, 5)  optionally coated with a layer of non-passivatable  material, partially embedded in the molded aggregate at  least on the anode side and having the entire surface  of the aggregate which is exposed to the anolyte, coated  with a layer of a chemically resistant and electrically  non-conductive resin,  the said ribs being  arranged to form a grid to distribute electric current to  the anode at a uniformly distributed multiplicity of  points over the entire anode surface.   2. the bipolar separator of claim 1, characterized in that  the resin is a two component mixture of an epoxy resin and  an aromatic amine hardener.   3. the bipolar separator of claims 1 or 2, characterized in  that the powder of electrically conductive material is  graphite powder.   4. the bipolar separator of any one of claims 1 to 3,  characterized in that the electrically conductive valve  metal ribs (5a, 5) are titanium rods coated with a layer  of a non-passivatable material.     5. the bipolar separator of claim 4, characterized in that  the electrically conductive valve metal ribs (5a, 5)  are coated with non-passivatable material which   is',    at  least one member of the group consisting of platinum,  rhodium, ruthenium, palladium, osmium and iridium and  oxides thereof.   6. the bipolar separator of any one of claims 1 to 5,  characterized in that the molded separator (3) is provided  over both its major surfaces with a recessed central zone  and a substantially flat peripheral zone, at least four  holes (18, 19, 20, 21, 26, 27, 28, 29) within said flat  peripheral zone, said four holes being hydraulically  connected in pairs respectively to each of the recessed  central zones on each of the major surfaces of the separator,  projections within said recessed central zone on the  cathode side surface of the separator, said projections  constituting the means for establishing the electrical  contact between the bipolar separator and the cathode of  one cell, an array of valve metal ribs   (5a,    5), optionally  coated with a layer of non passivatable material, partially  embedded in the electrically conductive aggregate,  within  said recessed central zone on the anode side surface of  the separator, said ribs constituting means for  establishing the electrical contact between the bipolar  separator and the anode of the adjacent cell.   7. the bipolar separator of claim 6, characterized in that the  entire surface of the electrically conductive aggregate  exposed to dontact with the electrolyte, with the exception  of the areas for the electrical contact with the electrodes  of the cell, are coated with a layer of electrically  insulating resin and the areas   o'    electrical    contact with the electrodes of the cell are coated with  a layer of a non-passivatable material comprising one  member of the group consisting of pt, rh, ru, pd, os, ir  and oxides thereof.    8. a method for the preparation of an electrically conductive,  bipolar separator for electrochemical cells of any one of  claims 1 to 7, characterized by mixing a powder of an  electrically conductive material with a chemically resistant  resin in a weight ratio between 1:1 and 9:1, molding the  mixture in a mold having arranged therein a plurality of  valve metal rods optionally provided with a non-passivating  coating under pressure and providing for a substantial  plastic flow of the mixture oriented along planes parallel  to the major surfaces of the separator during molding,  heating the mold to a temperature sufficient to effect  aggregation of the mixture into a rigid article partially  embedding the rods therein,  providing an electrically  insulating coating of a chemically resistant  resin over at least the surface of the electrically con  ductive aggregate exposed to the anolyte.    9. the method of claim 8, characterized in that the rods are  titanium rods.      10.    an electrochemical cell with a plurality of unit cells in  electrical series, each unit cell containing a porous  anode and a porous cathode respectively bonded onto the  opposite surfaces of an ion exchange membrane and wherein  individual unit cells are separated by a bipolar separator  which conducts electric current from the anode of one  unit cell to the cathode of the adjacent unit cell,  characterized in that the cell comprises the sepa  rator of any one of claims 1 to 7 as the bipolar  separator.     11. the cell of claim 10, characterized in that it is  provided with a foraminous, electrically conductive,  fine mesh element coated with a non-passivating material  which is in electrical contact with the ribs of the  separator and the anode.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
