<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0012028
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800611
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<main>F24J-3/02</main> F24J-2/04 F24J-2/20 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
solar energy collector assembly.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
larsen raymond b<sep>larsen, raymond barber<sep>larsen, raymond barber79 bolsamill valley, california 94941us<sep>larsen, raymond barber  <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
larsen raymond barber<sep>larsen, raymond barber<sep>larsen, raymond barber79 bolsamill valley, california 94941us<sep>larsen, raymond barber<sep>larsen, raymond barber79 bolsamill valley, california 94941us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a solar collector assembly (10) is capable of directing an  extremely thin film of water in direct contact with a collector  sheet (19), the film being formed and regulated by air cushion  layers (20, 18 and 22) coextensive with the passage or course  of water adjacent and in contact with the collector sheet; the  pressure of the air cushion layers against the collector sheet  and water film is closely regulated both by the pressure of air  in the air cushion layers and the relative tension applied to the  collector sheet and layers by the outer peripheral connector  and frame assembly.  a form of connector and frame assem­ bly (16) has been devised to establish both the desired spac­ ing and tension on the sheets (18, 19, 20 and 22) while permit­ ting releasable but secure connection of the sheets and layers  in place within the frame and simultaneously provide the  necessary communication with water inlet and outlet headers  (50,51:61,62) and air supply (40a, 40,41).  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
solar ettrgy cclle:cc^d asenbi;y this invention reiates to solar energy collector assemblies. notwithstanding the ever increasing activity in the development and use of solar energ as a source of heat, major detriments in such systems insofar as consumer acceptance is concerned are their initial cost of manufacture and installation, size, durability and weight for a given amount of heat transfer, and the ability to rapidly heat the heat transfer medium to the desired temperature; or in other words, to achieve maximum absorption of solar energy from the collector into the heat transfer medium. a number of solar energy collector assemblies have been devised utilizing flexible plastic materials both in the formation of the collector and transparent surface. representative of such systems are united states letters patent nos. 3,022,781 to andrassy; 3,029, > c6 to okuda; 3,174,915 to edlin; 3,513,828 to l0esqers and 3,991,742 to gerber. for instance, the patent to okuda discloses a plastic solar water heater which is inflated by water pressure when in use and provided with outer reinforcing along its edges. dlin is directed mcre to an air supported solar still with an extrusion adapted to support a canopy and to collect the distillate, and edge sealing members extend along the length and sides of the still. similarly, masters is directed to a flexible, bag-like solar water heater utilizing pillow-like inflatable elements with a water inlet at one end having longitudinally spaced apertures for directing water into the space between the base and central sheets together with longitudinally spaced, laterally extending partitions also having spaced water conducting apertures. gerber also employs flexible plastic bag sections with water distribution and collection troughs, and is directed in essence to the utilization of an uneven or irregular surfaced fluid spreader sheet for creating turbulence in the flow of water in order to wet substantially all of the upper and lower panel assemblies. on a publication entitled "the rutgers solar heating system for greenhouses", paper no. 79-4009, dated june 26-29, 1977, david r. mears et al describes a system in which air-inflated tubes press against a plastic collector sheet and water is passed through a perforated header along the surface of the collector sheet to recover the heat-absorbed by the sheet. to the best of my knowledge, however, the above and other prior art systems fail to make adequate provision for any means of supporting the flexible sheets comprising the collector and transparent layers in predetermined spaced-apart relation and in such a way that the spacing may be closely regulated notwithstanding the breadth or size of the assembly. moreover, there is a need for a positive but releasable edge sealing arrangement which will assure not only the desired spacing between layers but the proper tension or tautness of the sheet in order to carry out the principles of my invention. specifically, a vastly improved means of heat or energy transfer has been realized by the uniform flow of water in direct contact with the collector surface and where the water is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
   h3iat    is claimed is:   1. a solar energy collector assembly comprising:  a flexible collector sheet;  an adjacent flexible sheet;  means for supporting said sheets coextensive in facing cooperative relationship to each other with predetermined tension;  means for applying water between said spaced collector sheet and adjacent flexible sheet;  whereby said flexible sheets are urged toward one another by the tension and by the wetting action of the water to cause the water to flow in the form of a uniform thin film in contact with substantially the entire area of said collector sheet to recover heat from the collector sheet; and  means for collecting the heated water.   2. a solar energy collector as in claim 1 in which the collector sheet is disposed on top to directly receive the solar radiation.   3. a solar energy collector as in claims 1 or 2 in which said collector sheet is coated with a solar radiation absorbing film.   4. a solar energy collector as in any of claims 1 to 3 in which said adjacent flexible sheet is coated with a reflective sheet to reflect energy back into said water and to the collector sheet.   5. a solar energy collector assembly comprising:  a flexible collector sheet;  an adjacent flexible sheet;  means for supporting said sheets coextensive in facing cooperative relationship to each other with predetermined tension;  a first layer cooperating with said collector sheet to define an air cushion;  a second layer cooperating with the adjacent flexible sheet to define a second air cushion;  means for applying water between said spaced collector sheet and adjacent flexible sheet;    means for supplying air under pressure to said cushions so that collector sheet and flexible sheet are urged toward one another both by said air cushions, said tension and wetting by the water to cause the water to flow in the form of a uniform thin film in contact with substantially the entire area of said collector sheet to recover heat from the collector sheet:  and  means for collecting the heated water.   6. a solar energy collector as in claim 5 in which the collector sheet is disposed on top to receive directly the solar radiation.   7. a solar energy collector as in claims 5 or 6 in which said collector sheet is coated with a solar radiation absorbing film.   8. a solar energy collector as in claim 2 in which said adjacent flexible sheet is coated with a reflective sheet to reflect energy back into said water and to the collector sheet.   9. a solar energy collector assembly comprising:  an outer peripheral frame;  a collector sheet mounted in said frame;  water, distribution means associated with said frame for evenly distributing water in contact with said collector sheet;  a pair of air distribution layers disposed in closely spaced relation to one another and being coextensive with and substantially parallel to said collector sheet, at least one of said air distribution layers nearest to said collector sheet being composed of a thin, flexible material, said one air distribution layer being disposed in close proximity to but spaced from said collector sheet; ;  air supply means associated with said frame and isolated from said water distribution means for passing air under pressure between said air distribution layers and to maintain said layers at a predetermined pressure whereby to cause said one air distribution layer to be evenly pressed against the water to flow in the form of a thin film evenly over the face  of said collector sheet in order to recover heat from said collector sheet;  recovery means for removing the water after it has passed said collector sheet; and  securing means for securing said air distribution layers under predetermined tension to said frame in predetermined spaced relationship to one another and to said   collector    sheet.   10. a solar energy collector assembly according to claim 9, said cqllector sheet being in the form of a thin flexible layer mounted in said frame, and there being a third air distribution layer disposed in closely-spaced relation and substantially parallel to said collector sheet, said third air distribution layer disposed for extension in close proximity to the opposite face of said collector sheet to the face over which water is   dstributed,    and said air supply means adapted to pass air between said third air distribution layer and said collector sheet whereby to exert a force against the opposite face of said collector sheet equal and opposite to that of   pair    pair of air distribution layers.   11. a solar energy collector assembly according to claim 10, wherein the force of said air distribution layers against said collector sheet is sufficient to maintain she film of water passing along said collector sheet on the order of o to 100 mils thick.   12. a solar energy collector assembly according to any of claims 9 to 11, wherein said collector surface is composed of a flexible,   si;retch-resistant    material with a heat absorbing layer having its outer edges secured to said outer peripheral frame under tension and said pair of air distribution layers being composed of thin and flexible stretch-resistant layers having their outer ends secured under tension to said outer peripheral frame in predetermined spaced relation to said collector sheet.   13. a solar energy collector assembly according to any of   claims 9 to 12, wherein said one of said pair of air distribution layers is of a thinner gauge than the other of said pair of air distribution layers.   14. a solar energy collector assembly according to claims 9 and 10, the outer peripheral edges of said collector sheet, pair of air distribution layers and said third layer being flexible, and said securing means defined by channels formed in said outer peripheral frame adapted to receive the outer flexible ends of said air distribution layers, and wedge members releasably inserted into said channels to engage with a wedge action the outer flexible ends of said air distribution layers.    15. a solar energy collector assembly according to claim 14, said channels extending continuously along the periphery of said frame, there being a separate channel for each of said air distribution layers and said collector sheet.   16. a solar energy collector assembly according to claim 15, wherein each channel is of generally u-shaped cross-sectional configuration, and each of said wedge members includes a flexible, generally u-shaped female wedging portion corresponding to the u-shaped cross-sectional configuration of each   sac    respective channel.   17. a solar energy collector assembly according to claim 16, wherein each wedge member includes a male wedging portion insertable into said female wedging portion.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
