<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0015784
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800917
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B43K-8/22 B43K-5/00 <main>B43K-5/18</main> B43K-5/18 B43K-8/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
fountain pen.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
pilot pen co ltdjp<sep>pilot man nen hitsu kabushiki kaisha<sep>pilot man-nen-hitsu kabushiki kaishano. 5-18, kyobashi 2-chomechuo-ku tokyojp<sep>pilot man-nen-hitsu kabushiki kaisha  <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
murahara koichi<sep>yasunaga teibun<sep>murahara, koichi<sep>yasunaga, teibun<sep>murahara, koichino 2-5-2, hachiman-daiisehara-shi kanagawajp<sep>yasunaga, teibunno 590-3, aza ogawa minamitoyodahiratsuka-shi kanagawajp<sep>murahara, koichi<sep>yasunaga, teibun<sep>murahara, koichino 2-5-2, hachiman-daiisehara-shi kanagawajp<sep>yasunaga, teibunno 590-3, aza ogawa minamitoyodahiratsuka-shi kanagawajp<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
ink is supplied to the nib (2) of the pen under the  control of a motor-actuated ink delivery device (9).  an ink  holder (1a) is formed covering a slit region (4) of the nib  (2) to form an ink pool (1) between the ink holder and the  nib.  a detector (6) is provided for detecting the quantity of  ink in the ink pool (1) at any time.  a pen holder (5) sup­ ports the nib (2), and includes an ink reservoir (8) opening  into the ink pool (1).  the ink delivery device (9) is coupled  to the ink reservoir (8) for delivering ink to the ink pool (1)  under pressure.  an electrical power source (15) and a  power delivery circuit are provided for controlling the flow  of current to an operating motor (10).  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
fountain pen this invention relates to a fountain pen provided with means for automatically supplying ink to its nib in a controlled manner. a conventional fountain has a pen feed for feeding ink from an ink reservoir to the nib. the pen feed has an ink groove along which the ink runs, and an air groove for introducing air. unfortunately, if an ink reservoir having a large capacity is provided in the pen holder, ink may ilow over the nib, resulting in ink dripping. this occurs because the ink may be supplied to the nib at an excessively high rate due to a pressure or temperature change. as the ink is used, the internal pressure in the ink reservoir decreases until air is drawn into the ink reservoir. at which time the internal pressure increases. thugs, when writing with the pen, the internal pressure in the ink reservoir alternately decreases and increases, resulting in a pulsating flow of ink. as a result, the user's handwriting is likely to be irregular in density. in order to give accent to handwriting, it is necessary to increase the writing pressure. upon increasing the writing pressure in a conventional fountain pen, the slit in its nib tends to open thereby stopping the flow of ink onto the paper. moreover, if a conventional fountain pen is not used for a relatively long time, the ink tends to dry making it difficult to commence writing satisfactorily. the aim of the invention is to provide a fountain pen which does not suffer from the above-described difficulties. the present invention provides a fountain pen comprising a nib, an ink reservoir, means for transferring ink from the ink reservoir to the nib, and an electric power source for powering the transfer means. advantageously, the nib has a slit region, and an ink pool is formed between the nib and an ink holder. this allows -the:lnk to be transferred continuously onto a sheet even if the slit in the nib is opened, and to commence writing satisfactorily even if the nib was initially dry. moreover, even if the ink has dried in the slit, application of writing pressure will open the slit to break the dried ink so that ink can again pass through the slit to the point of the nib. in this connection, as the ink pool is adjacent to the nib, the ink can be more quickly supplied than if the ink pool were to be provided at other positions. the ink holder may be in the form of a flat plate or a plate member which is curved, in cross-section, towards the nib. alternatively, the ink holder may be in the form of a flexible cylinder having a hole which communicates with the slit region of the nib. again, the pen may further comprise a pen feed, and the ink holder may be formed as a recess in a surface of the pen feed which confronts the slit region of the nib. only an ink introducing
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims   1. a fountain pen comprising a nib, an ink reservoir, means for transferring ink from the ink reservoir to the nib, and an electric-power source for powering the transfer means.   2. a fountain pen as claimed in claim 1, further comprising a detector for detecting the quantity of ink in an ink pool adjacent to the nib, the detector controlling the supply of power to the transfer means.   3. a fountain pen as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the nib has a slit region.   4. a fountain pen as claimed in claim 2 or claim 3, wherein the ink pool is formed between the nib and an ink holder.   5. a fountain pen as claimed in claim 4 when appendant to claim 3, wherein the ink holder covers the slit region of the nib, and the ink pool communicates with the slit region of the nib.   6. a fountain pen as claimed in any one of claim 1 to 5, wherein the nib is supported by a pen holder, and the pen holder houses the ink reservoir.   7. a fountain pen as claimed in any one of claims 2 to 6, wherein the transfer means comprises an ink delivery device associated with the ink reservoir, a power delivery circuit connecting the electric power source to the ink delivery device, and a switch circuit connecting the detector to the delivery circuit.   8. a fountain pen as claimed in any one of claims 4 to 7, wherein the ink holder is in the form of a plate.   9. a fountain pen as claimed in any one of claims 4 to 7, wherein the ink holder is in the form of a cylinder having a hole which communicates with the slit region of the nib.     10. a fountain pen as claimed in any one of claims   4-7    further comprising a pen feed, and wherein the ink holder is formed as a recess in a surface of the pen feed which confronts the slit region of the nib.   11. a fountain   pen-as    claimed in any one of claims 3 to 10, wherein the ink pool is provided on the upper surface of the slit region of the nib, on the lower surface of the slit region of the nib, or on both upper and lower surfaces of the slit region of the nib.   12. a fountain pen as claimed in any one of claims 2 to 11, wherein the detector comprises a single electrode or a pair of electrodes provided in the ink pool.   13. a fountain pen as claimed in any one of claims 2 to 11, wherein the detector comprises photoelectric elements provided at predetermined positions outside the ink pool.   14. a fountain pen as claimed in any one of claims 2 to 11, wherein the detector comprises an electrostatic capacity detector.   15. a fountain pen as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 14, wherein the ink reservoir comprises a   bellows    shaped member, or a piston and a cylinder.   16. a fountain pen as claimed in any one of claims 7 to 15, wherein the ink delivery device comprises an electric motor and a piston coupled to the output shaft of the motor for depressing the ink reservoir.   17. a fountain pen as claimed in any one of claims 7 to 15, wherein the ink delivery device comprises an electromagnetic valve provided between the ink pool and the ink reservoir, and a pressurising member provided at the side of the ink reservoir remote from the ink pool.     18. a fountain pen as claimed in claim 17, wherein the pressurising member is constituted by a pair of magnets provided at the side of   th'e    ink reservoir remote from the ink pool, the magnets being arranged to repel one another.   19. a fountain pen as claimed in any one of claims 7 to 18, further comprising a writing-pressuresensitive switch for sensing contact of the nib with a writing surface, the switch circuit being connected in series with the writing-pressure-sensitive switch.   20. a fountain pen as claimed in any one of claims 4 to 19, further comprising a cover provided on the surface of the slit region of the nib opposite the ink holder.   21. a fountain pen as claimed in claim 8, or in any one of claims 15 to 20 when appendant to claim 8, wherein the ink holding plate is so positioned that a capillary ink pool is formed between the nib and the ink holding plate, the ink holding plate being made of an electrically non-conductive material, and the detector comprises the nib and an electrode provided on the surface of the ink holding plate.   22. a fountain pen as claimed in claim 7, or in any one of claims 8 to 21 when appendant to claim 7, wherein the switch circuit includes means for controlling the delivery device in response to an ink quantity detection signal emitted by the detector.   23. a fountain pen as claimed in claim 22, wherein the controlling means comprises a schmitt trigger circuit.   24. a fountain pen as claimed in claim 22, wherein the controlling means comprises an electric circuit including a series-connected capacitor and resistor connected across first and second terminals of the electric power source with  with first and second terminals of the detector coupled across the capacitor, a comparator circuit having an input terminal coupled to the junction between the capacitor and the resistor, and a drive transistor having an input electrode coupled -to an output of the comparator and an output   electrode    coupled to the ink delivery device.    25. a fountain pen as claimed in claim 4, wherein the ink pool is formed between the nib and a flanged portion of the ink holder with the ink pool in communication with the slit region of the nib.   26. a fountain pen as claimed in claim 4, wherein the ink holder is a pouch, and has an outer surface made of electrically conductive flexible material and an inner surface made of electrically non-conductive flexible material, the pouch having an opening communicating with the slit region of the nib.   27. a fountain pen as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 26, wherein the electric power source is a battery.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
