<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0007783
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800206
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<main>C02F-3/00</main> B01J-8/24 C02F-3/12 C02F-1/00 B01J-8/20 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
fluidized-bed reactor having excess growth control system.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
ecolotrol us  <sep>ecolotrol inc.<sep>ecolotrol inc.1211 stewart avenuebethpage, new york 11714us<sep>ecolotrol inc.<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
hickey robert f<sep>owens roger w<sep>hickey, robert f.<sep>owens, roger w.<sep>hickey, robert f.284 locust streetflorence, mass. o.060us<sep>owens, roger w.130 west 6th streetdeer park, new york 11729us<sep>hickey, robert f.<sep>owens, roger w.<sep>hickey, robert f.284 locust streetflorence, mass. o.060us<sep>owens, roger w.130 west 6th streetdeer park, new york 11729us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a control system to prevent the accumulation of exces­ sive cellular material in a fluidized-bed reactor (10) wherein a  waste liquid to be processed is conducted upwardly at a veloc­ ity conducive to fluidization through a bed of particles (14)  which function as a carrier for the growth of the material.  the  system includes a separator column (17) whose lower end  section extends toward the fluidized bed and whose upper  end section extends above a head of liquid effluent which lies  on the bed, or is sealed and located below the surface of liquid  effluent.  in the course of reactor operation, the cellular mater­ ial on the particles continues to grow, causing the bed to  expand upwardly.  an agitator arrangement (18,19,20) associ­ ated with the separator effects shearing of the excess cellular  material from the particles to produce in the separator column  a mixture of sheared material and partially stripped carrier  particles.  the separator column is provided with a draw-off  port (21) somewhat below the surface of the effluent head, the  exit flow rate at the draw-off port being adjusted so that the  resultant upward flow velocity in the separator column is  lower than the settling velocity of the carrier particles in the  mixture but higher than that of the sheared material.  as a  consequence, the sheared material is washed away through  the draw-off port, whereas the partially stripped carrier parti­ cles fall back into the fluidized bed.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
excess-growth control system for fluidized bed reactor this invention relates generally to a fluidizedbed reactor in which waste water or other liquid to be processed is conducted upwardly through a bed of small carrier particles which in the course of operation are enlarged by the growth of cellular material thereon, and more particularly to a system for controlling the accumulation of such material in a fluidized-bed reactor to prevent excessive growth thereof. the invention will be described in connection with reactors for extracting nitrogen compounds such as nitrate or ammonia from waste water by means of a fluidized bed of solid particles serving as carriers for micro-organisms grown thereon. these reactors are preferably of the type disclosed in the u.s. patent 3,846,289 and u.s. patent 4,009,099, whose entire disclosures are incorporated herein by reference. it is to be understood, however, that a system in accordance with the invention is also applicable to other forms of fluidized-bed reactors in which the need exists to control the build-up of bacteria and other types of cellular material on the carrier particles to prevent excessive growth thereof. thus the invention is useful in connection with the fluidized-bed reactors of the type disclosed in u.s. patents 4,032,407, 4,009,098 and 4,009,105. it is now recognised that the existence of nitrogen compounds in waste water represents a serious threat to ecological balances existing in nature. accelerated eutrophication of lakes and streams is often caused by feeding conventionally-treated waste effluent into surface waters. while such treatment is designed to remove solids and oxygen-demanding organic material, they do not extract from these wastes the substantial quantities of ammonia and nitrate ions which are contained therein and which promote the production of algae. aside from being a major nutrient to algae growth, nitrogen in the form of ammonia is toxic to aquatic life and can react with a chlorine disinfectant to form chloramines which are carcinogenic. hence there is a need for waste water treatment that effects almost complete denitrification; that is, the conversion of nitrate or nitrite compounds to non-polluting elemental nitrogen gas prior to the release of the wastes to surface waters. the fluidized-bed reactors disclosed in the aboveidentified u.s. patents accomplish denitrification by a biological process in which bacteria act to reduce nitrite or nitrate constituents in the influent waste stream into harmless nitrogen gas. this process is carried out in a fluidized-bed reactor in which the waste water to be treated passes upwardly through a bed of small particles, such as activated carbon or sand, at a velocity sufficient to cause motion or fluidization of all of the medium which then functions as a carrier or support surface for the growth of bacteria. the use of small sand or other particles provides a vast surface area on which the bacteria can flourish and grow, thereby making it possible to remove a considerable amount of contaminants from the waste water in a relatively small reactor volume. fluidization" of the medium augments the effective surface area, compared to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims    1. a control system for preventing accumulation of excessive cellular material in a fluidized bed reactor wherein waste water or other liquid to be processed is conducted upwardly therein at a speed conducive to fluidization through a bed of particles which function as a carrier for the growth of the material, a head of effluent being developed above the bed from which the effluent is discharged from the reactor, the control system being characterized by: :  a separator column (17) positioned at least partially within the effluent head (15) with its lower end extending towards or into the fluidized bed (14), said column having a draw-off port (21) from a position below the surface of the effluent head and  means (18,19,20,28,29,30) associated with said column (17) to effect shearing of the excess cellular material from the particles to produce in the column a mixture of sheared material and partially stripped carrier particles, whereby the partially stripped particles are returned to the bed (14) while the sheared material is discharged from the column through the draw-off port.      2. a control system according to claim 1 characterized in that the separator column (17) is disposed in the reactor (10) with its upper end extending above the surface of the effluent head (15).    3. a control system according to claim 1 or claim 2, characterize#d in that the means for effecting shearing includes means (25) to activate the shearing process when the expansion of the fluidized bed (14), as a result of said growth, reaches an alarm limit (ap) indicative of excessive growth, to provide an exit flow rate at the draw-off port (21) which results in an upward flow velocity in the separator column that is lower than the settling velocity of the partially-stripped carrier particles but higher than the settling velocity of the sheared material whereby the sheared material is washed away through the draw-off port.    4. a control system according to claim 3, further characterized by means to de-activate said shearing process when the level of said fluidized bed, as a result of the shearing activity, falls to a predetermined safety limit (sp).      5. a control system according to any preceding claim, characterized in that the lower end of the separator column (17) extends into the fluidized bed (14) itself.    6. a control system according to any one of claims 1 to 4, characterized in that the lower end of said separator column (17) is located in the head of effluent above the fluidized bed, and means are provided to transfer the particles from the fluidized bed to the separator column.    7. a control system according to claim 6, characterized in that said transfer means functions to effect said shearing action.    8. a system according to claim 7, characterized in that said transfer means includes a main loop (29) including a transfer pump (30) to draw particles from said fluidized bed and to feed said particles to said separator column at a high point.    9. a system according to claim 8, further characterized by an auxiliary loop (36) including a second pump (33) to draw particles from adjacent the low  end of said separator column and to feed these particles back to said column at said high point to augment said shearing action.    10. a system according to claim 7, characterized in that said transfer means includes a pipe projecting from a point in said column adjacent the low end thereof into the fluidized bed, and means to inject compressed air into said pipe to force particles from said bed through said pipe into said column.    11. a control system according to any preceding claim, characterized in that the means for effecting shearing is an agitator arrangement comprising a motordriven mixing blade (19) operating within the lower portion of the separator column (17).    12. a control system according to any one of claims 1 to 10, characterized in that the means for effecting shearing is an agitator arrangement comprising a transducer   (28) disposed    in said separator column to produce sonic energy.      13. a control system according to any one of claims 1 to 10, characterized in that the means for effecting shearing is an agitator arrangement external to said reactor (10) and constituted by a loop (29) having a pump (30) therein to draw the particles coated with cellular material from the column (17) and to return the material to the column.    14. a control system according to claim 13, characterized in that said loop further includes a line static mixer (30a).    15. a control system according to claim 13 or claim 14, characterized in that said loop further includes means (29a) to effect hydraulic shearing.    16. a control system according to any preceding claim, characterized in that the low end of the separator has a conical portion (17a).    17. a control system according to claim 16, further characterized by means to inject effluent from said head into said loop when the system is inactive to clear said loop.      18. a control system according to any preceding claim, characterized in that a valve (23) is provided in the draw-off port (21) to adjust the flow rate there through.    19. a control system according to claim 18, characterized in that the valve is normally closed and means are provided simultaneously to open said valve and to activate the shearing process when the expansion of the fluidized bed, as a result of growth of cellular material therein, reaches an alarm limit ap indicative of excessive growth, to provide an exit flow rate at the draw-off port which results in an upward flow velocity in the separator column (17) that is lower than the settling velocity of the partially-stripped carrier particles but higher than the settling velocity of the sheared material whereby the sheared material is washed  away through the draw-off port;  and means to close said valve and simultaneously deactivate the shearing process when the level of the bed, as a result of said shearing, reaches a safety limit (sp) below said alarm limit,   thereby    completing an excess-growth removal cycle.      20. a system according to claim 19, further characterized by a first sensor (24) to produce a signal when said alarm limit is reached and a second sensor (27) to produce a signal when said safety limit is reached, and electronic control means (25) responsive to the signals from the first and second sensors to effect automatically the activation and deactivation of the shearing process and the opening and closing of the valve (23).     21. a system according to any preceding claim, characterized in that the draw-off port (21) feeds sheared material to a dewatering unit (22).    22. a control system according to any preceding claim, characterized in that the lower end of the separator column (40) has a diameter that is smaller than that of the upper end whereby if the upward velocity in the upper end is at a value causing some sheared material as well as carrier particles to settle therein, the velocity in the lower end is at a higher value to prevent back-up of said sheared material into the reactor.   23. a system according to claim 22, characterized in that said upper end extends above the surface of the effluent head (15).    24. a system according to claim 22, characterized in that said upper end is capped and lies below the surface of the effluent head (15).    25. a control system according to claim 22 or claim 23, characterized in that said separator column (40) further includes a section   (b)    intermediate said lower end (c) and said upper end (a) and having a diameter of intermediate value whereby if the upward velocity in the intermediate section is at a value causing carrier particles as well as sheared material to be washed away, the velocity at the upper end is then at a lower value to prevent carrier particles from being washed away.    26. a control system according to claim 25, characterized in that the means for effecting shearing is constituted by a loop having a pump therein extending between the intermediate section and the upper end of the separator column to draw carrier particles having excess cellular material from the intermediate section,to shear said particles and to feed the mixture of sheared material  and partially-stripped carrier particles into the upper end of the column.    27. a control system according to claim 25 or claim 26, characterized in that said separator column (40) has a stepped formation to define distinct lower end (c), intermediate (b) and upper end (a) sections.    28. a control system according to claim 25 or claim 26, characterized in that said separator column (41) has a conical formation of upwardly increasing diameter, the lower portion of which acts as the lower end section, the intermediate portion of which as the intermediate section, and the upper portion as the upper end section.    29. a control system according to any one of claims 22 to 25, further characterized by a concentrator section in a funnel formation immersed in the fluidized bed, the shearing means being constituted by a line including a pump to draw carrier particles having excess growth therein which have settled in the concentrator section from the outlet thereof into the upper end section of the separator column.       30. a control system according to claim 21, further characterized by a valve in the outlet area of the concentrator section, which valve is closed when the shearing means is operative and open when it is not in operation to permit free flow through the concentrator section.    31. a control system according to claim 30, further characterized by a density sensor disposed in said concentrator section to render said shearing means operative when the sensed density of particles settled in said concentrator section attains a predetermined value.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
