<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0006330
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800109
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
F16H-63/00 F16H-61/26 B60K-20/04 B60K-20/02 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
gear shift control linkage.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
nissan motorjp  <sep>nissan motor co., ltd.<sep>nissan motor co., ltd.2 takara-cho, kanagawa-kuyokohama-shi kanagawa-kenjp<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
sukeshita kazumijp<sep>sukeshita, kazumi<sep>sukeshita, kazumino. 5-20-22, midoro-cho koganei-citytokyojp<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a gear shift control linkage for use with a transmission  in a vehicle has a support link (30) having a pivot end pi足 votally connected to the body (12) of the vehicle and a con足 necting end linked by means of a support rod (22) with the  casing (10) of the transmission.  the support link (30) has  a fulcrum (20a) which is located between its pivot and con足 necting ends and at which it pivotally supports a gear shift  control lever (20).  the gear shift control lever (20) has an  upper handle end (20b) and a lower connecting end linked  by means of a control rod (16) with a gear shift actuating  shaft (18) and is arranged to turn about the fulcrum (20a)  in moving the control rod (16) and therefore the gear shift  actuating shaft (18) in order to effect gear shifting in the  transmission.  the fulcrum (20a) is displaceable in a circular  arc in response to displacement of the transmission where足 by the displacement of the handle end (20b) of the gear  shift control lever (20) is limited to quite a small value.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
"gear shift control linkage". this invention relates to gear shift control linkages for transmissions and more particularly to a gear shift control linkage for use with a remote control manual transmission mounted on a front-drive vehicle with a transversely-mounted engine at front. in a front-drive vehicle of the above-mentioned t me, its trans-ission is arranged transversely and fixed to the engine to constitute a single power unit. the transmission is controlled by a gear shift control linkage including a gear shift control lever which is located behind the transmission and operatively connected to it by a control rod. in this type of vehicle, when a torque is transmitted from the power unit to front road wheels or vice versa through a final drive unit and cardan or half-shafts, there is created a torque reaction which tends to rotate the power unit rearwardly or fonfardly of the vehicle. as a result, the power unit rocks or is displaced forwardly and rearwardly, causing the gear shift control lever to swing responsively. in this instance, since the gear shift control lever is pivoted at its lower end and of a consicierable leng-ltl relative to its diameter and has at its upper handle end a control knob of an appreciable weight relative to its overall weight, the swing of the gear shift control lever in response to forward and rearward displacement of the power unit is viable to be amplified, which inevitably causes a deterioration of the feeling of the gear shift control lever on manipulation and, in the worse possible case, causes the gear of the transmission to jump out of engagement. there is shown diagrammatically in figure 4 of the accompanying drawings of this application, a conventional gear shift control linkage for use with a transmission in a vehicle of the afore-mentioned type. in figure 4, designated by reference numeral 10 is a transmission which is connected integrally with an engine (not shown), by 12 a vehicle body, by 14 a buffer member, made of a resilient material such as rubber, which is interposed between the vehicle body 12 and the transmission 10, by 16 a control rod connected at its forward end to a gear shift actuating shaft 18, and by 20 a gear shift control lever which has a lower connect nag end connected to the rearward end of the control rod 16 and an upper handle end fitted with a control knob 20b. the gear shift control lever 20 is pivotally connected at 20a to the vehicle body 12, that is, the gear shift control lever 20 is carried at 20a on a fixed fulcrum about which it turns in moving the control rod 16 and therefore the gear shift actuating shaft 18 in order to effect gear shifting of the transmission 10. with this arrangement, when the transmission 10 is displaced by s1, tjie control knob 20b is displaced by sp. in this instance since the diplacement of the control knob 2gb in response to that of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims   1. a gear shift control linkage for use with a trans   mission      (10)    in a vehicle, the transmission having   a      easing    and a   gear    shift   actuating    shaft   (18)    and being adapted to perform gear shifting by selective movement of said gear shift actuating shaft, the shift control linkage comprising:  a gear shift control lever (20) having an upper handle end and a lower connecting end, a control rod (16) linking the connecting end of said gear shift control lever with said gear shift actuating shaft, support means (30,30a,30b) supporting the gear shift control lever at a portion (20c) thereof between said handle end and said connecting end so as to form a fulcrum   (20s)    about which the gear shift control lever turns in moving said control rod and therefore the gear shift actuating shaft, and connecting means connecting the support means to the casing of the transmission, characterised in that said support means (30) is   pivotally      connected    to the   connecting    means (22) and to the body (12) of the vehicle such that said fulcrum is displaceable in an arc;  and in that the connecting means (22) connects said support means (30) to the casing (10) of said transmission in such a manner that when said transmission is displaced relative to the body (12) of the vehicle in either of the alternate directions of pushing and pulling said control rod (16), the fulcrum (20a) is displaced in the arc in the corresponding direction and by an amount   whi cli is smaller than that of displacement of the lower    connecting end of the gear shift control lever (20).   2. a   geal    shift control linkage   according    to claim 1,   characterlsod      in    that the support means comprise a   support      lill      (fug)      havisslg    an upper pivot end pivotally  connected to the body (12) of the   vehicle    and   a      lower    connecting end connected to the   connecting    means (22),  and a pivot   n,30    pivotally connecting said portion (20c) of the gear shift control lever (20) to the support link   (,0),    said pivot forming on the support link (30) the fulcrum (20a) which is located between the pivot end and the connecting end of the support link (30).    3. a gear shift control linkage according to claim 2, characterised in that the connecting means comprise a support rod (22) which is connected at one end to the casing (10) of the transmission and at its other end to the connecting end of said support link (30).   4. a gear shift control linkage according to any of claims 1 to 3, characterised in that the transmission (10) is arranged transversely at the front of said vehicle, and in that the gear shift control lever (20) is located behind the transmission with the fulcrum (20a) displaceable in the arc   forwardly    and rearwardly of the vehicle.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
