<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0006397
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800109
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B65B-13/18 B65B-27/12 <main>B30B-9/30</main> B65B-13/28 A01F-15/14 A01F-15/00 B65B-27/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
tying device in baling presses.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
personer werkstadse<sep>personer verkstad ab<sep>persöner verkstad abfack 1511s-271 00 ystadse<sep>personer verkstad ab <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
andersson bo anders<sep>andersson, bo anders<sep>andersson, bo anderssturegatan 15s-271 00 ystadse<sep>andersson, bo anders <sep>andersson, bo anderssturegatan 15s-271 00 ystadse<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
in an apparatus for binding bales of material which  is compressed by a plunger (3) in a compaction channe 1,  said apparatus including means (6a, 6b, 6c) for feeding  wires (7a, 7b) along opposite walls of the compaction  channel; a needle assembly (10) having a needle (11) for  transversal movement across the compaction channel  through opposite openings and for catching the wires  and carrying the same to one side of said channel; a  twister assembly (20) having two twister hooks (21) ar­ ranged to catch und twist together the wires (7a, 7b) when  brought to said one side of the channel; and a cutting  assembly for cutting the wires, the improvement of a  common actuating means (27) for the twister assembly  (20) and the cutting assembly, in the twister assembly the  two twister hooks (21) being supported on a common  shaft (22), and in the cutting assembly a fixed cutter mem­ ber being arranged for cooperation with a movable cut­ ter member (32).  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
bale tying or binding device the present invention relates to bale binding or tying devices and, more particularly, to an apparatus for binding bales of material, which is compressed in a compaction channel by means of a plunger. prior apparatuses of this kind are described in e.g. u.s. patent specifications nos. 3.667.377 and 3.789.751. these prior apparatuses include means for continuously feeding and guiding at least a wire or a band along opposite walls of the compaction channel, a needle assembly supported by a support device, having at least one needle for picking up the two wires and for carrying these through the compaction channel in its transversal direction, the needle being arranged to be moved through opposite openings in the said walls of the channel and through a groove at the free end of the plunger in alignment with the said openings, when the plunger takes its outer extreme position for compressing the material, at least one twister assembly arranged on the other side of the channel in relation to the needle assembly, having two rotary twister hooks on separate shafts at a relative distance for gripping the wires and twisting these together, and a cutting assembly for cutting off the wires between the twister hooks. these prior apparatuses for binding bales operate comparatively satisfactorily for short periods but have a complex structure and many movable parts. consequently, a simpler apparatus for binding bales is needed, which can operate for long periods without supervision. an object of the invention is to provide an apparatus for binding bales, which apparatus obviates the drawbacks of previously know bale binding apparatuses and permits a more reliable operation. this object is achieved by means of an apparatus for binding bales of material, which is compressed by means of a plunger in a compaction channel, said apparatus including means for continuously feeding at least one wire or the like along opposite walls of the compaction channel; a needle assembly having at least one needle for catching the wires and carrying these, each needle being arranged to be moved through opposite openings in the said walls of the compaction channel and through a groove in alignment with these openings, in the front end of the plunger when the plunger takes its front extreme position for compressing the material; a twister assembly adjacent to one of the said openings and having two twister hooks arranged to catch the wires and to twist these together, when the wires have been caught by the needle, and a cutting assembly for severing the wires, which apparatus according to the invention is distinguished by the improvement of a common actuating means for the twister assembly and the cutting assembly, and that the twister hooks are supported on a common shaft, and that the cutting assembly has a fixed cutter member arranged to cooperate with a movable cutter member for cutting off the wires. the invention will be described in greater detail below, reference being made to the attached drawing, in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims  1. an apparatus for binding bales of material, which is compressed by means of a plunger (3) in a compaction channel (1), said apparatus including means (6a, 6b, 6c) for continuously feeding at least one wire (7a, 7b) or the like along opposite walls of the compaction channel; a needle assembly (10) having at least one needle (11) for catching the wires (7a, 7b) and carrying these, each needle being arranged to be moved through opposite openings (5a, 5b) in the said walls of the compaction channel (1) and through a groove (4) at the front end of the plunger (3) and in alignment with these openings, when the plunger takes its front extreme position for compressing the material;  a twister assembly (20) having for cooperation with each needle a twister means (20) adjacent to one of the said openings, said twister means having two twister hooks (21) arranged to catch the wires (7a, 7b) and to twist these together, when the wires have been caught by the needle, and a cutting assembly (30) cooperating with said twister means for cutting off the wires, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the twister hooks (21) are supported on a common shaft (22), that the cutting assembly has a fixed cutter member (31) arranged to cooperate with a movable cutter member (32) for cutting off the wires and that a common actuating means (27) is provided for the twister assembly (20) and the cutting assembly (30).    2. the apparatus as claimed in claim 1, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that a gear wheel (27) is fixed to the shaft (22) of the twister hooks (21), that said actuating means comprises a rack (27) in mesh with said gear wheel, which rack is operatively actuatable for rotation of the shaft and so the twister hooks.    3. the apparatus as claimed in claim 2, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the twister assembly (20) has parallel to said shaft (22) a recess (26) for receiving the wires (7a, 7b) carried by the needle (11), that the rack (27) is supported for movement across the recess, and the movable cutter member (32) is mounted on the rack.    4. the apparatus as claimed in claim 2, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the twister assembly (20) has parallel to said shaft a recess (26) for receiving the wires (7a, 7b) carried by the needle (11), that the rack (27) is supported for movement across the recess and the movable cutter member (32) is mounted on said shaft (22) of the twister assembly.      5. the apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 2-4, c h a r   act    e r i z e d in that the rack (27) has a notch (35), which is located in position with the recess (26) when the twister assembly (20) is set to receive the wires.    6. the apparatus as claimed in claim 5, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the movable cutter member (32) is mounted in said notch (35).    8. the apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 6, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that said needle (11) of the needle assembly has a portion deviating from its main direction.    8. the apparatus as claimed in claim 7, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that said needle (11) is essentially curved.     9. the apparatus as claimed in claim 8, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that said needle assembly is supported by a support device, having a swinging arm (12) connected to one end of the needle (11), said arm being rotatably supported at its other end by a shaft (13), which is perpendicular to the direction of motion of the plunger (3).    10. the apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 9, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the needle assembly comprises a plurality of needles (11) supported in parallel, each needle (11) being arranged to be moved through a separate groove (4) in the plunger (3) and associated openings (5a,   5b)    in the compaction channel (1), and cooperating with separate twister means (20) of the twister assembly as well as with a separate cutting assembly (30), the shafts (20) of said twister means (20) being driven by a common rack (27).  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
