<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0017183
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19801015
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<main>C07C-45/50</main> B01J-31/40 C07C-45/50 C07C-47/02 C07C-45/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
hydroformylation medium, process of production thereof and process for producing aldehydes using the hydroformylation medium.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
union carbide corpus<sep>union carbide corporation<sep>union carbide corporation39 old ridgebury roaddanbury connecticut 06817us<sep>union carbide corporation<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
bryant david robert<sep>galley richard allen<sep>muller wolfgang hans eduard <sep>otte werner<sep>zur hausen manfred  <sep>bryant, david robert<sep>galley, richard allen<sep>muller, wolfgang hans eduard<sep>otte, werner<sep>zur hausen, manfred<sep>bryant, david robert1201 shady waysouth charleston 25309us<sep>galley, richard allen1110 hollyberry lanesouth charleston west virginiaus<sep>müller, wolfgang hans eduardbitterfelder strasse 9ad-4370 marlde<sep>otte, wernerlipper weg 195d-4370 marlde<sep>zur hausen, manfredhöchster strasse 1d-4370 marlde<sep>bryant, david robert<sep>galley, richard allen  <sep>muller, wolfgang hans eduard <sep>otte, werner<sep>zur hausen, manfred<sep>bryant, david robert1201 shady waysouth charleston 25309us<sep>galley, richard allen1110 hollyberry lanesouth charleston west virginiaus<sep>müller, wolfgang hans eduardbitterfelder strasse 9ad-4370 marlde<sep>otte, wernerlipper weg 195d-4370 marlde<sep>zur hausen, manfredhöchster strasse 1d-4370 marlde<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
hydroformylation mediums, and a process for produc­ ing same, which are derived from a rhodium complex  concentrate as well as a hydroformylation process for  producing aldehydes which employs said concentrate as a  source of rhodium for the rhodium complex catalyst of said  process.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
field of tfe invention this invention relates to novel hydroformylation mediums prepared from rhodium complex concentrates containing reactivated rhodium which are derived from spent hydroformylation reaction mediums containing a partially deactivated rhodium complex catalyst and triarylphosphine. this invention also relates to an improved process for preparing aldehydes by the hydro formylation of an olefin in the presence of a rhodium complex catalyst, the improvement comprising employing as a source of rhodium for the catalyst said rhodium complex concentrate. backgrround of the invention processes for forming aldehydes by the hydroformylation reaction (oxo synthesis) of an olefin with carbon monoxide and hydrogen in the presence of a rhodium complex catalyst and free triarylphosphine are well known in the art. for instance, u.s.p. 3,527,809, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein, discloses a hydroformylation process where olefins are hydroformylated with carbon monoxide and hydrogen in the presence of a rhodium complex catalyst and free triarylphosphine to produce aldehydes in high yields at low temperatures and pressures, where the normal to iso-(or branch chain) aldehyde isomer ratio of product aldehydes is high. it is also known that, under hydroformylation conditions, some of the product aldehydes may condense to form by-product, high boiling aldehyde condensation products such as aldehyde dimers or trimers. commonlyassigned u.s. patent 4,148,830, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference thereto, discloses the use of these high boiling liquid aldehyde condensation products as a reaction solvent for the catalyst. more specifically, as pointed out in said u.s.p. 4,148,830, some of the aldehyde product is involved in various reactions as depicted below using n-butyraldehyde as an illustration: emi2.1 aldol (z) rubstituted acrolein (ii) emi2.2 (trimer z==) (trimer tv) emi2.3 (diver v) (tetramer vi) in addition. aldol i can undergo 'le following reaction: emi2.4 (tetramer vit) the names in parentheses in the afore-illustrated equations, aldol i, substituted acrolein ii, trimer iii, trimer iv, dimer v, tetramer vi, and tetramer vii, are for convenience only. aldoll is formed by an aldol condensation; trimer iii and tetramer vii are forced via tischenko reactions; trimer iv by a transesterification reaction; dimmer v and tetr mer vi by a disproportionation reaction. principal condensation products are triner iii, trimer iv, and tetramer vii, with lesser amounts of the other products being present. such condensation products, therefore, contain substantial quantities of hydroxylic compounds as witnessed, for example, by trimers iii and iv and tetramer vii. similar condensation products are produced by self-condensation of iso-butyraldehyde and a further range of compounds is formed by condensation of one molecule of normal butyraldehyde with one molecule of iso-butyralde- hyde. since a molecule of normal butyraldehyde can aldolize by reaction with a molecule of iso-butyraldehyde in two different ways to form two different aldols viii and ix, a total of four possible aldols can be produced by condensation reactions of a normal/iso mixture of butyraldehydes. emi3.1 aldol (ix) aldol i can undergo further condensation with isobutyraldehyde to form a trimer isomeric with trier iii and aldols viii and ix and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
what is   claimed    is:    1. a process for preparing a hydroformylation medium, said medium comprising a rhodium complex and triarylphosphine, which comprises mixing a rhodium complex concentrate with a sufficient amount of triarylphosphine so that there is at least about 10 moles of free triarylphosphine per mole of rhodium present in said medium;  said rhodium complex concentrate having been produced by a process which comprises concentrating a spent hydroformylation reaction medium that contains a partially deactivated rhodium complex catalyst and free triarylphosphine, into at least two separate material streams by means of distillation at temperatures of about 200c to about   3500c    and at pressures of   about about 1000 mm huge to about 1x10 6 mm hug., wherein one    stream is said rhodium complex concentrate distillation residue containing a major amount of the rhodium of said catalyst and which has been concentrated to about   01    to about 30 percent by weight of said spent hydroformylation reaction medium,  and the other material stream or streams consist essentially of one or more of the distilled volatile components of said spent hydroformylation reaction medium.    2. a process as defined in claim   1,    wherein said concentrate contains more than about 90, preferably more than about 97, percent by weight of all of the rhodium of said partially deactivated catalyst.    3. a process as defined in claim   i,    wherein the distillation takes place in two stages and   wherein    the second distillation stage is distilled at a lower pressure than the first   distillatiton    stage.    4. a process as defined in claim   3    wherein the first distillation stage is conducted at temperatures of about 200c to about   250 0c    and pressures of about 1000 mm   hge    to about 0.1 mm   hug.,    and the second distillation stage is  conducted at temperatures of about   25 0c    to about   350c    and    -6 pressures of about 100 mm hg. to about 1x10 6 mm hg.       5. a process as defined in claim 4, wherein the first distillation stage is conducted at temperatures of about 200c to about   1900c    and pressures of about 150 mm hg. to about 0.5 mm hg., and the second distillation stage is conducted at temperatures of about 1500c to about   3000c    and pressures of about 20 mm hg. to about 0.1 mm hg.    6. a process as defined in claim   1,    wherein the spent hydroformylation reaction medium is batch distilled*  7. a process as defined in claim   1,    wherein the distillation is carried out in a thin-film evaporator  8. a process as defined in claim 1, wherein the triarylphosphine is triphenylphosphine.    9. a process as defined in claim 1,wherein sufficient triarylphosphine and sufficient solvent has been mixed   witi    said concentrate so that the hydroformylation medium contains at least about 10 moles, preferably about 50 moles, of free triarylphosphine per mole of rhodium and from about 25 to about 1000 ppm rhodium calculated as free meta:  10. a process as defined in claim 9, wherein the hydr formylation medium contains from about 50 to about 400   ppm    rhodium calculated as free metal and wherein the triarylphosphine is triphenylphospine.    11. a process as defined in claim 10, wherein the solvent is selected from the group consisting of   aldehyde.      and higher boiling aldehyde condensation products.      12. a process as defined in claim 3, wherein the first distillation stage is batch distilled and the second distillation stage is carried out in a thin-film evaporator.      15.    a process as defined in claim 3, wherein both distillation stages are carried out in a thin-film evaporator.    14. a process as defined in claim 3, wherein the rhodium complex concentrate has been concentrated to about   i    to about 10 percent by weight, preferably about 2 to about 6 percent by weight, of said spent hydroformylation reaction medium.    15. a process as defined in claim 13, wherein both distillation stages are carried out in a wiped-film evaporator.    16. a process as defined in claim 1 or/and 4, wherein the process for producing said rhodium complex concentrate also involves washing the rhodium complex concentrate with an aqueous alkaline solution and/or water.       and/r4     17. a process as defined in   claim 1 xwherein    the process for producing said rhodium complex concentrate also involves adding an oxidant selected from the group consisting of oxygen and an organic peroxide, preferably oxygen, to the rhodium complex concentrate.    18. a process as defined in claim 17, wherein said oxidant is oxygen in the form of air which has been thoroughly dispersed throughout said concentrate by directly feeding air into said rhodium complex concentrate distillation residue.      19. a process as defined in claim 17, wherein the process for producing said rhodium complex concentrate also involves washing the oxidant treated rhodium complex concentrate with an aqueous alkaline solution and/or water  20. a process for preparing a hydroformylation medium as defined in claim   1    wherein at least some of the triarylphosphine of said medium is triarylphosphine that is recovered from the distillate of the concentration process for producing said rhodium complex concentrate.    21. a hydroformylation medium comprising a rhodium complex and at least about 10 moles of free triarylphosphine per mole of rhodium present in said medium, said rhodium complex having been derived from a rhodium complex concentrate which has been produced by a process which comprises concentrating a spent hydroformylation reaction medium that contains a partially deactivated rhodium complex catalyst and free triarylphosphine, into at least two separate material streams according to the process of claims 1-20.     22. process for producing aldehydes by   hydroformylat    ing an olefin with hydrogen and carbon monoxide in the presence of a hydroformylation reaction medium,characterisec that a medium obtained according to the process of claims 1-20 is used as hydroformylation medium.    23. a hydroformylation process according to claim 22, characterised that at least some of the triarylphosphine in said hydroformylation reaction medium is triarylphosphine that has been recovered from the distillate of the concentration process for producing said rhodium complex concentrate.    24. process for the recovery and activity increase of spent rhodium and phosphine containing catalysts from   reaction products of the rhodium catalysed oxosynthesis, characterised by the fact that, the reaction mixture containing partially deactivated rhodium catalysts is separated into at least 2 material streams by means of distillation at temperatures of 150 to   300 c    and at pressures of 1,500 to 0.1 milibars, whereby    1a    one material stream contains the volatile  components such as aldehydes, acetals  esters and phosphines but practically no  rhodium and    ib    the other material stream contains practi  cally all the rhodium compound,  whereby the  distillation residue is concentrated to   0.1       tbireight    percent and sufficient phosphine  quantity is added to this concentrated ma  terial stream so that at least 100 moles  phosphine per gramme atom rhodium is present  in the regenerated mixture.    25. process in accordance with claim 24, characterised by the fact that the distillative separation into the material streams is carried out in a thin-film evaporator or in a falling-film evaporator.    26. process in accordance with claims 24 and 25, characterised by the fact that the distillative separation into more than 2 material streams takes place in two stages, preferably the second stage being distilled at lower pressure.     27. process in accordance with claims 24 to 26, characterised by the fact that phosphine recovered from the rhodium-free distillate is added to the concentrated rhodium containing material stream.      28. process in accordance with claims 24 to 27, characterised by the fact that phosphine is used in the form of triphenyl phosphine.    29. process in accordance with claims 24 to 28, characterised by the fact that distillative separation into at least 2 material steams is carried out at temperatures of 170 to   z70 c,preferably    at 200 to   2200c.       30. process in accordance with claims 24 to 29, characterised by the fact that the distillation residue is concentrated to   i    to 10 weight   percentpreferably      1.5    to 5 weight percent0  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
