<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0012429
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800625
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B67C-3/02 B67C-7/00 B67C-3/26 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
automated filling and stopper-applying machine for vessels intended to contain liquids in general.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
velo giovanni<sep>velo, giovanni<sep>velo, giovannivia c. battisti, 8 caerano san marco (treviso) it <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
velo giovanni<sep>velo, giovanni<sep>velo, giovannivia c. battisti, 8caerano san marco (treviso)it<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
the machine comprises a substantially rectilinearly  extending conveyor (3) whereat are provided a filling unit  (20) having a plurality of liquid delivering nozzles (21) ef­ fective to be inserted into vessels (6) standing on the  conveyor (3) and a stopper-applying unit (30) operative  on the filled vessels.  a single motor (40) operates to ac­ tuate the filling and stopper-applying uniyd (20, 30) and  incrementally advance the conveyor (3).  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
this invention relates to an automates filling and storper-apdlying machine for vessels intended to contain liquids in general. currently known and used are several types of filling and stopper-applyirg machines, or "bottling" machines, for such vessels as bottles, jugs, and other containers of various shapes, which are normally utilized for containing wines, liquors, or other liquid products. sch "bottlin¯" machines comprise, in their more frequently occurring form, a feeding conveyor, having ar suitable configuration, which is operative to transfer or feed empty vessels to be filled to a filling station and then to a stopper-applying station, downstream where of additional processing stations may be provided stitch as a labelling unit. in conventional "bottling" machines, the filling station is prevailingly of the carousel type where, in a way, the vessel to be filled is picked up from the conveyor and directed to a generally circular side track, whereat a filling or delivery nozzle fills the vessel to a desired level. after the vessel has been so filled, it is re-directed to the conveyor and transferred to successive processing stations. as relates to the stopper-applying station, the empty vessel, or bottle, is again picked up, or somehow shunted, from the feeding conveyor and directed to the stopper-applying station, where it is deposited onto a platform which raises the vessel and aligns it with a stopper applicator head, thereby the vessel is sealed with a desired type of stopper. conventional machines have in first place the disadvantaxe that their bulk size is considerable, as due to the presence of two separate processing stations, i.e. the filling and stopper-aplyin stations, powered by individual motors. a further drawback of conventional bottling machines is that the filling of the vessels by means of filling stations of the carousel type considerably slows down the entire processing cycle, since each vessel, or bottle, is required to stop at its respective filling nozzle for a relatively lnng time, namely until the vessel has been properly filled. moreover, an added problem is encountered at the stopper applicator head, because the vessels, or bottles, must be moved vertically upwards to engage with the stopper applicator head, which aggravates the problem of the production cycle downtime. another problem is the fact that conventional machines have poor versatility or flexibility, in that they involve major modifications whenever different size or shape vessels are to be handled,this being also the case when the stopper configuration must be chanted, because in practice the entire stopper applying station must be replaced with another such station having the desired features. this invention sets out to eliminate the above difficulties by providing an automated filling and stopper-applying machine affording the possibility of carrying out both the filling and stopper-applying operations on vessels which are not removed from the feeding conveyor whereon they stand, the conveyor having a rectilinear pattern in its active run, both in order to reduce the machine bulk and considerably simplify the structure thereof. within that general aim, it is possible to arrange that the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
    a s a i m s         1.    an automated filling and stopper-applying machine for vessels intended to contain liquids in general, characterised in that it comprises a vessel (6) feeding conveyor (3) of the closed loop type   having a    substantially rectilinearly extending active run, at said active run there being provided a filling unit (20) including a plurality of liquid delivering nozzles   (21,21a) which    can be inserted into vessels (6)   standing    on said   active    run, and a stopper-applying   unit    (30) operative on vessels standing on said active   run    and filled   with      liqui!    from   said    delivery nozzles (21,21a), there being further provided a drive (41-44,  50-53) for actuating said filling (20) and stopper (30) applying units and for incrementally advancing said conveyor, said drive (41-44, 50-53) being connected to a single motor   (40);     2. an automated filling and stopper-applying machine according to claim 1, characterised in that it comprises a load-bearing frame (1) which is   mounted    on wheels (2) and has associated   tberewith    said motor (40), said filling unit (20), said stopper-applying unit; (30), and said conveyor   (3).       3. an automated filling and stopper-applying machine according to the preceding claims, characterised in that said conveyor comprises a segmented conveyor belt (3) running around a drive sprocket wheel (4) and an idler   (5),    said conveyor belt (3) having on its outward facing side abutment vanes (7) extending substantially perpendicular with respect to a plane defined by said conveyor (3) and substantially trans  versally with respect to the   longitudirai    extension of said conveyor belt (3), said abutment vanes (7) being evenly spaced apart from one another.    4. an automated filling and stopper-applying machine according to the preceding   claims,      charseter-    ised in that said liquid delivering nozzles (21,21a) are aligned to one another and positioned above the centerline of said conveyor (3), said liquid delivering nozzles (21,21a) being spaced apart from one another by a distance equal to or being an integer multiple of the   distanc    separating any two adjacent abutment   cranes    (7).    5. an automated filling and stopper-applying machine according to the preceding claims,   character-    ised in that said nozzles   (21,21a)    are carried by a vertically reciprocable cross-member (25).    6. an automated filling and stopper-applying machine according to one or more of the preceding claims,   cheracterired    in that said nozzles   (21s21s)    are   operative    to introduce each part of the liquid amount   rewired    to fill said vessels (6).    7. an automated filling and stopper-applying   machne    according to one or more of the preceding claims, characterised in that said stopper-applying unit (30) comprises a stopper applicator head (31)   which    is reciprocable vertically and carried by said cross-member (25) supporting said liquid delivering nozzles   (21,21a).       8. an automated filling and stopper-applying machine according to one   or    more of the preceding claims, characterised in that said drive actuating  said filling unit (20) and said stopper-applying   imit    (30), as well as advancing   increnientally    said conveyor   (    comprises a cam (41) rotated by said motor (40) and engaging, through a lower cam follower (44) and upper cam follower (43), a vertical push rod (42) carrying said cross-member (25), said cam (41) being articulated excentrically to the end of an arm (50) having its other end provided with a   pawl    (51) engaging rollers or balls '(52) evenly distributed on a disk (53) associated with said sprocket wheel (4) driving said conveyor (3).    9. an automated   filli.    and stopper-applying machine according to one or more of   thè    preceding claims, characterised in that on said disk   (5 3)    there is provided a through slot (70) in the   shape of    a segment of a circle, which is adapted for   allowing    an angular position phase displacement between said   disk    (53) and said sprocket wheel (4).    10. an automated filling and stopper-applying machine according to one or more of the preceding claims, characterised in   tbat    it comprises, at said active   run    of said   conveyor    (3), a pair   ol    guiding   strips    (11) arranged opposite each other and being carried by articulated arms (12) for   parallellydis-    placing said strips (11) such as to position them in accordance with the size of the vessels (6) standing on said conveyor (3).     11. an automated filling and stopper-applying machine according to one or more of the preceding claims, characterised in that it comprises, upstream of said filling unit, a braking device (60) acting  on said vessels (6) to position them in contact with that abutment vane (7) which happens to be directly upstream of said vessel with respect to the direction   of    advance of said conveyor belt.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
