<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0015779
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800917
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
A61N-1/365 A61N-1/372 <main>A61N-1/36</main> 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
apparatus for programming a pacemaker.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
medtronic incus <sep>medtronic, inc.<sep>medtronic, inc. 3055 old highway eight minneapolis minnesota 55440us<sep>medtronic, inc.<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
barthel thomas c<sep>bergland william j<sep>nelms george e<sep>barthel, thomas c.<sep>bergland, william j.<sep>nelms, george e.<sep>barthel, thomas c.route no. 2becker minnesota 55308us<sep>bergland, william j.8270 broad avenue n.e.fridley minnesota 55432us<sep>nelms, george e.6905 dakota trailedina minnesota 55435us<sep>barthel, thomas c.  <sep>bergland, william j. <sep>nelms, george e.<sep>barthel, thomas c.route no. 2becker minnesota 55308us<sep>bergland, william j.8270 broad avenue n.e.fridley minnesota 55432us<sep>nelms, george e.6905 dakota trailedina minnesota 55435us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
programming apparatus for transmitting r. f.  signals to  an implanted packemaker via coil 70 comprises a keyboard  22, 24, 26, 30 with l. e. d. s 58 and a digital display 28  whereby an operator may input parameters to be pro­ grammed in the pacemaker and observe the values, error  messages, etc.  a microprocessor 40 executes a raotine  stored in rom 48.  ekg leads 48a, b, c connected to the patient are cou­ pled to an interrupt input of the microprocessor such that  when an ekg signal occurs, the apparatus interrupts the  routine to time and calculate the pulse rate and width of  the ekg signals.  batteries 64 are switchable by relay 66 from parallel  to series connection for providing a higher voltage for  transmission.  to conserve battery power, a power control circuit  operates in 3 modes: off/rest with only flip-flops 54 ener­ gised, power down with ekg amp 44, keyboard 22, 24, 26,  30, 52, display 58, 72, 28 and battery checker 62 energis­ ed, and operating with processor components 40, 48, 50,  56, 68 and beeper 60 energised.  power down is selected  by an on/off switch, and operating by an input key.  er­ roneous operation results in an error message and return  to power down or off/rest.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
apparatus for programming a pacemaker technical field this invention relates to apparatus for programming internally implanted electronic devices adapted to be operated in a variety of programmable modes for stimulating body tissue or to monitor various conditions of the device itself or of body tissue, e.g., the patient's heart. background of prior art heart pacers such as that described in u.s. patent no. 3,057,356 issued in the name of wilson greacbatch and assigned to the assignee of this invention, are known for providing electrical stimulus to the heart whereby it is contracted at a desired rate in the order of 72 beats per minute. such a heart pacemaker is capable of being implanted within the human body and operative in such an environment for long periods of time. typically, such pacemakers are implanted in the pectorial region or in the abdominal region of the patient by a surgical procedure, whereby an incision is made in such region and the pacelraker with its own internal power supply is inserted within the patient's body. this pacer operates asynchronously to provide-fixed-rate stimulation not automatically changed in accordance with the body's needs, and has proven effective in alleviating the symptoms of complete heart block. an asynchronous pacer, however, has the possible disadvantage of competing with the natural, physiological pacemaker during episodes of normal sinus condition. an artificial pacer of the demand type has been developed wherein the artificial stimuli are initiated only when required and subsequently can be eliminated when the heart returns to the sinus rhythm. such a demand pacer is shown in u.s. patent no. 3,478,746 issued november 18, 1969 and entitled "cardiac implantable demand pacemaker". the demand pacer solves the problem arising in asynchronous pacers by inhibiting itself in the presence of ventricular activity (the ventricle's r wave), but by coming "on line" and filling in missed heartbeats in the absence of ventricular activity. a problem with such prior art, implantable demand pacers it that there was no way to temporarily increase or decrease the rate br other operating parameter at which these stimulating pulses are generated without surgical intervention. still another problem is the great difficulty in ascertaining a failing electrode, and in establishing an adequate r-wave sensitivity safety margin in an implanted demand pacer. another improvement which has occurred since greatbatch first disclosed the implantable cardiac pacemaker is means to allow the pacemaker to be reprogrammed after it has been implanted. in united states patent 3,805,796 in the name of reese terry, jr. et al, entitled "implantable cardiac pacer having adjustable operating parameters", which issued in 1974, circuitry is disclosed to allow the rate of the pacemaker to be noninvasively changed after it has been implanted. the rate varies in response to the number of times a magnetically operable reed switch is closed. the terry et al device operates by counting the number of times the reed switch is closed and storing that count in a binary counter. each stage of the counter is connected to either engage or
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims   1. apparatus for programming a pacemaker, said pacemaker comprising memory means for receiving and storing signals indicative of the parameters and/or modes of operation to control the application of its stimulating pulses to a patient's heart, and generator means responsive to the stored signals for generating and applying stimulating pulses to the patient's heart, said apparatus comprising:  (a) data input means for receiving and entering under operator control parameters and/or modes of operation to program said pacemaker;  (b) transmitter means responsive to the mode of operation and/or parameters entered via said data input means for encoding and transmitting corresponding signals to said pacemaker;  (c) means coupled to the patient's body for sensing the simulating pulses applied by said pacemaker to the patient's heart;  and  (d) processor means for executing a program to process data input via said data input means and including an interrupt input adapted to receive data from said sensing means indicative of the pacemaker's stimulating pulses, said processor means being responsive to the operation of said transmitter means to enable its interrupt input to receive the sensed stimulating pulses, and comprising means for detecting and calculating in response thereto the rate and pulse width of the stimulating pulses.   2. programming apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said processor means comprises a first counter responsive to a first received stimulating pulse to initiate its counting and to a second received pulse for terminating its counting, whereby a manifestation of the interval  therebetween and thus pulse rate is provided, and a second counter responsive to a leading edge of one of said pulses to initiate for counting and to the trailing edge thereof to terminate its count to provide an indication of the pulse width of a stimulating pulse.   3. programming apparatus as claimed in claim 2, wherein there is further included display means for displaying the values of the measured pulse rate and pulse width.   4. programming apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim, further comprising a depletable energy source for energising the apparatus;  actuable means for initiating the operation of the apparatus  memory means for storing a program;  processor means for executing the program to process the data inputed via said data input means;  and  power control means coupled to the depletable energy source for variously energizing the elements of said apparatus in an off/rest mode, a power down mode and an operating mode, said power control means comprising a storage element continously energized by the energy source and responsive to the actuation of said initiating means to dispose said apparatus from its off/ rest mode to its power down mode wherein said data input means is energized by the energy source, said power control means being responsive to the input of data by said energized data input means to dispose said apparatus from its power down to its operating mode, wherein said processor means is energized to execute the stored program.   5. programming apparatus as claimed in claim 4, wherein said data input means comprises a key board having a plurality of actuable keys and decoder means responsive to the actuation of a key of said key board  to generate and apply a data available signal to said power control means, whereby said power control means disposes said apparatus from its off/rest mode to its power down mode.   6. programming apparatus as claimed in claim 4 or 5 further comprising display means for providing an indication of the operation of the apparatus, said display means being de-energized in said off/rest mode and being energized in said power down and operating modes.   7. programming apparatus as claimed in claim 4,5 or 6 wherein there is included energy source checking means adapted to be coupled to said depletable energy source to determine its power output level, said processor means being operative to compare the energy source level with a pre-determined minimum level below which said apparatus may not operate and if below said minimum level, said power control means disposing said apparatus to its off/re-st mode.   8. programming apparatus as claimed in claim 4,5, 6 or 7 wherein the program stored within said memory is arranged to receive and process data from said input data in a predetermined sequence, said processor means being responsive to data inputted from said data input means to compare the inputted data with that data that may be accepted at a point in the execution of said program and if not acceptable, providing a manifestation to said power control means, whereby said power control means is disposed from its operating mode to its power down mode.   9. programming apparatus as claimed in any of claims 4 to 8 wherein said data input means comprises a keyboard including a plurality of actuatable keys and decoder means responsive to the actuation of a key to provide a  manifestation of the depressed key, said processor means being coupled to said decoder means to determine whether the depressed key is acceptable and if not for applying said manifestation to said power control means, whereby the apparatus is disposed from its operating mode to its off/rest mode.   10. programming apparatus as claimed in claim 9, wherein said memory stores a truth table indentifying the acceptable keys that may be depressed.   11. programming apparatus as claimed in claim 10, wherein said processor means is responsive to the actuation of one or more keys to provide a manifestation of the value of the inputted data and comparing the value manifestation with acceptable values that may be input into said apparatus., said processor means being responsive to an unacceptable value for providing an error manifestation to said power control means to dispose said computer system from its operating mode to its power down mode.   12 programming apparatus as claimed in any of claims 4 to 11 wherein said depletable energy source includes first and second batteries, said power control means comprising switch means normally disposed in a first position connecting said first and second batteries in parallel with each other to provide a first voltage signal of a first relatively low magnitude, and disposable to a second position to connect said first and second batteries in a series configuration to provide a second voltage signal of a second relatively high level, said power control means being disposable to a fourth-mode, wherein said apparatus is energized by the second voltage signal.   13. programming apparatus as claimed in claim 12,  wherein said processor means is responsive to the operation of said transmitter means to provide a manifestation to said power control circuit to dispose said switch means from its first to its second position, to supply the second voltage signal to said transmitter means.   14. apparatus energized by a depletable energy source for programming a pacemaker as to its parameters and/or modes of operation to control the application of its stimulating pulses to a patient's heart, said pacemaker including memory means for receiving and storing signals indicative of the parameters and/or modes of operation, and generator means responsive to the stored signals for providing corresponding stimulating pulses to the patient's heart, said programming apparatus comprising: :  (a) a keyboard comprising a plurality of actuable keys for receiving and entering by operator manipulation parameters and/or modes of operation in which to program said pacemaker;  (b) decoder means coupled to said keyboard and responsive to the actuation of a key of said keyboard to provide a manifestation of the actuated key;  (c) actuatable   mans    for initiating the operation of said programming apparatus;  (d) memory means for storing a program;  (e) processor means for executing said program to process the data indicative of the parameters and/or modes of operation entered via said keyboard;    and  (f) power control means coupled to the depletable energy source for variously energizing the elements of said programming apparatus in an   offjrest    mode, a power mode and an operating mode, said power control means comprising a storage element continuously energized by said energy source and responsive to the actuation of said initiating means to dispose said programming apparatus from its off/rest mode to its power down   mode wherein said decoder means is energized by the energy source, said power control means   beings    responsive to the key manifestation of said energized decoder means for disposing the programming apparatus from its power down to its operating mode, wherein said processor means is energized to execute the stored program.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
