<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0016936
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19801015
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B65G-53/60 A01K-79/00 B65G-53/34 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
air unloader for fish.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
atlantic bridgeca<sep>atlantic bridge company limited<sep>atlantic bridge company limitedp.o. box 1120lunenburg, nova scotia boj 2coca<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
chouinard joseph r cca <sep>dick james m rca   <sep>holbrook george wca<sep>chouinard, joseph r.c.<sep>dick, james m.r.<sep>holbrook, george w.<sep>chouinard, joseph r.c.r.r.2pleasantville, nova scotia bor 1goca<sep>dick, james m.r.r.r.2mahone bay, nova scotia boj 2eoca<sep>holbrook, george w.tantallonhalifax county, nova scotia boj 3joca<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
apparatus for conveying and handling delicate articles  such as fish includes an elongated inlet duct adapted to  extend into an article storage region, such as the hold of a  ship.  the suction producing means (40) provides for a  flow of air through the elongated inlet duct at a velocity  sufficient to entrain the articles in the air flow and to carry  same through the inlet duct.  a separating means is inter­ posed between the suction producing means (40) and the  inlet duct for receiving articles passing through the inlet  duct and for separating such articles from the air flow.  the  separating means includes a hollow chamber (32) of gen­ erally circular cross-section defining a generally upright  axis of symmetry, such chamber (32) having an air inlet  channel (58) connected to the inlet duct and an air outlet  channel (52) connected to the suction producing means  (40) whereby the latter maintains a sub-atmospheric pres­ sure in the chamber (32).  inlet channel (58) and outlet  channel (52) are generally tangentially disposed with re­ spect to the circumference of the chamber (32) so that air  entering the chamber (32) via the inlet channel (58)  moves in a rotational pattern around the chamber axis and  thence outwardly of the outlet channel (52) without re­ versing its direction of rotation.  articles entrained in the  entering flow are guided around the chamber axis by the  interior wall of the chamber (32) and move downwardly  within the chamber (32) in a spiral path under the influ­ ence of gravitational forces thereon.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
air unloader for fish bacsgrowd of the invention this invention relates in general to the handling of articles and, in particular, to improvements in apparatus for conveying and handling somewhat delicate articles, such as fresh sea products, by means of air flow. the handling of certain sea products, particularly the softer fleshed variety of fish, presents problems not found in the conveyance of other relatively tough sea products, such as certain shell fish, in that the softer flesh fish are quite easily damaged by rough handling to the point where a large proportion can be used only for low-grade fillet packs or by-products such as fish meal or fish oil. obviously it is desirable to keep the number of damaged fish to a minimum from the profit point of view. the unloading of fish rapidly from the hold of a ship, with a minimum of effort, and with little damage to the fish presents a problem which has not as yet been solved in an entirely satisfactory fashion. while a number of pneumatic conveyance devices have met with a certain degree of success insofar as speed and utilization of manpower are concerned, it has been found that such devices, in general, tend to cause far too much damage to certain of the more delicate species of fish. an earlier form of pneumatic conveyance device is illustrated in canadian patent no. 756,474 issued april 11, 1967. the patent states that this device is capable of withdrawing sea products, such as shrimp, from the hold of a ship by passing the shrimp through an elongated hose while entrained in a stream of air and thence into a chamber within which is maintained a partial vacuum. the lower portion of the chamber enters into a reservoir which contains water. after the shrimp enter the chamber at high velocity they strike the surface of the water in the reservoir at substantially right angles thereto whereby they are very quickly decelerated to almost zero velocity. the shrimp then settle below the surface of the water and come to rest upon a conveyor belt which carries the shrimp outwardly of the reservoir and deposits same at some location e.g. on an unloading dock. while this apparatus has been successful in conveying certain of the firmer fleshed varieties of fish, such as red fish, it has not been widely accepted in the industry mainly due to the fact that it causes undue damage to most kinds of softer fleshed fish with damage rates often running in the order of 50% (i.e. damage is often caused to approximately 50% of the catch). a large portion of the damage appears to occur at the moment of impact of the fish with the surface of the water in the reservoir. much of the damage was apparently caused by the fish striking the water at right angles at high velocity which apparently resulted in bruising, breaking and tearing of the flesh of these fish. canadian patent no. 867,649 issued april 6,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims    1. apparatus for conveying and handling delicate articles such as fish, including:  an elongated inlet duct adapted to extend into an  article storage region, such as the hold of a ship;  suction producing means for producing a flow of air  through the elongated inlet duct at a velocity  sufficient to entrain said articles in the air flow  and to carry same through the inlet duct;  separating means interposed between the suction  producing means and the inlet duct for receiving  articles passing through the inlet duct and  separating the articles from the flow of air; ;  the separating means including a hollow chamber of  generally circular cross-section defining a generally  upright axis of symmetry, said chamber having an air  inlet channel connected to the inlet duct and an air  outlet channel connected to the suction producing  means, whereby the latter, in operation, maintains  a sub-atmospheric pressure in said chamber; ;  the improvement wherein both said inlet channel and  said outlet channel are generally tangentially disposed  with respect to the circumference of the chamber so  that air entering said chamber via said inlet channel  moves in a rotational pattern around the chamber axis  and thence outwardly of said outlet channel without  reversing its direction of rotation and with articles  entrained in the entering flow being guided around the  chamber axis by the interior of the chamber and moving  downwardly within said chamber in a spiral path under  the influence of gravitational forces thereon.    2. apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said outlet channel is disposed at a level above the level of the inlet channel.    3. apparatus according to claim 2 wherein said chamber is defined by a plurality of wall sections;  said outlet channel being connected to a wall section which has a diameter less than the diameter of a wall section to which the inlet channel is connected whereby to substantially reduce carry-over of solids from the inlet channel to the outlet channel.    4. apparatus according to claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein said chamber includes a conical wall section in a lower portion thereof, the diameter of the conical section decreasing in the downward direction, and the lower end of the chamber defining an exit way for said articles and having a liquid trap arrangement associated therewith to allow the articles to exit the chamber while preventing entry of air into said chamber via said trap.    5. apparatus according to claim   1,    2 or 3 wherein said chamber includes a conical wall section in a lower portion thereof, the diameter of the conical section decreasing in the downward direction, and the lower end of the chamber defining an exit way for said articles and having a liquid trap arrangement associated therewith to allow the articles to exit the chamber while preventing entry of air into said chamber via said trap, said trap including a water tank and a belt conveyor disposed therein upon the upper surface of which said articles settle after exiting from the lower end of the chamber, the belt conveyor being adapted to carry said articles upwardly out of the water tank.    6. apparatus according to claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein said chamber includes a conical wall section in a lower portion thereof, the diameter of the conical section decreasing in the downward direction, and the lower end of the chamber defining an exit way for said articles and having a liquid trap arrangement associated therewith to allow the articles to exit the chamber while preventing entry of air into said chamber via said trap, and wherein said exit way for said articles includes a tubular throat section disposed below said conical wall section and arranged to be disposed in the liquid of the liquid trap, said tubular throat section being shallowly flared outwardly in the downward direction to reduce blockages caused by build-ups of any ice which is  carried through into the chamber along with the articles.    7. apparatus according to claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein said generally tangentially disposed inlet channel includes a surface portion arranged to impart a degree of radial velocity to the articles relative to the axis of the chamber before said articles enter into the chamber to lessen the shock of contact between said articles and the interior of the chamber after entry.    8. apparatus according to claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein said chamber includes a conical wall section in a lower portion thereof, the diameter of the conical section decreasing in the downward direction, and the lower end of the chamber defining an exit way for said articles and having a liquid trap arrangement associated therewith to allow the articles to exit the chamber while preventing entry of air into said chamber via said trap, and wherein said exit way for said articles includes a tubular throat section disposed below said conical wall section and arranged to be disposed in the liquid of the liquid trap, said tubular throat section being shallowly flared outwardly in the downward direction to reduce blockages caused by build-ups of any ice which is carried through into the chamber along with the articles,   the length of the tubular throat section being selected to ensure that any buoyant solids and ice are pushed down through a lower exit end of the throat section by any mass of solids, including said articles, accumulating at the surface of the liquid standing within said throat section under conditions of maximum sub-atmospheric pressure, i.e. minimum absolute pressure.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
