<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0004847
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19791031
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
H01M-8/08 H01M-4/90 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
method for the electrochemical oxidation of hydrogen and carbonaceous fuels.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
lyons ernest h jr <sep>lyons, ernest h., jr.<sep>lyons, ernest h., jr.23871 willows drive, 350laguna hills california 92653us<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
lyons ernest h jr<sep>lyons, ernest h., jr.<sep>lyons, ernest h., jr.23871 willows drive, 350laguna hills california 92653us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a method of and a fuel cell for generating electric current  comprising oxidizing hydrogen, hydrocarbon, or other fuel in  the fuel cell (1) in contact with electrolyte comprising water  have a ph in the range of 5 to 10, and in contact with an  anode (2) for oxidizing the fuel, the anode (2) having at least  one lower sulphide of at least one transistion metal present  at the anode surface as an electro-catalyst for oxidation of  the fuel, the sulphide being present at the anode surface in a  sufficient amount to catalyze the electrochemical oxidation  of the fuel and being substantially immune to chemical and  electrochemical attack under conditions of operation of the  cell (1).  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
this invention relates to improvements in fuel cells for electrochemical oxidation of hydrogen, hydrocarbons and other carbonaceous fuels. of all fluid fuels, hydrocarbons offer the most energy per unit cost by a large margin. thus, major amounts of research money and manpower have been committed to the quest for fuel cells that are suitable for hydrocarbon fuels. although cells based on platinum or platinum-ruthenium alloy anodes have apparently proven to be the most effective ones for hydrocarbon fuels, their performance has been disappointing. in the oxidation of propane in 85-90% h3-p04 at l50-l750c, the overvoltage has been very high, about 300-350 mv at useable current densities. this causes the loss of about 30-35% in conversion efficiency in a propane/oxygen cell. moreover, in use the anode has steadily increased in overpotential until finally the flow of current stops; then, after some seconds, current flow is resumed at about the original overpotential. this cycle is repeated at regular intervals. this behaviour offers difficulties in practical applications. also, the short supply and high cost of platinum have discouraged commercialization. according to one aspect of the invention there is provided a method of generating electric current comprising oxidizing hydrogen, hydrocarbon or other fuel in a fuel cell in contact with an electrolyte comprising water having a ph in the range of about 5 to 10, and in contact with an anode for oxidizing the fuel, the anode having at least one lower sulphide of at least one transition metal present at the anode surface as electrocatalyst for oxidation of the fuel, the sulphide being present at the anode surface in a sufficient amount to catalyze electro-chemical oxidation of the fuel and being substantially immune to chemical and electrochemical attack under conditions of operation of the cell. preferably at least one transition metal includes nickel, copper, iron and cobalt. according to another aspect of the present invention there is provided a fuel cell for oxidizing hydrogen, hydrocarbons and other fuel in accordance with the method set forth above, comprising: i. an aqueous electrolyte comprising water having a ph in the range of about 5 to 10; ii. an anode, for oxidizing the fuel, including at the surface of the anode at least one lower sulphide of at least one transition metal, at least one lower sulphide being: (a) present at the surface of the anode in sufficient amount to catalyze electro-chemical oxidation of the fuel, and (b) substantially immune to chemical and electro chemical attack under cell operating conditions; and iii. an oxygen cathode. the anode is a member having a contact surface or surfaces including at least a catalytic amount of a compound which is substantially non-oxidizeable at fuel oxidation potential. the compound can be for instance, at least one binary or ternary metal sulphide compound, including especially those compounds which contain at least one transition metal. the term compound is intended to include compounds and mixtures of compounds whose molecular composition or average composition may be non-stoichiometric. the applicable sulphides are lower sulphides
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:   1. a method of generating electric current comprising oxidizing hydrogen, hydrocarbon or other fuel in a fuel cell (1) in contact with an electrolyte comprising water and in contact with an anode (2) for oxidizing the fuel, characterised in that the electrolyte comprising water has a ph in the range of 5 to 10 and in that the anode (2) has at least one lower sulphide of at least one transition metal present at the anode surface as electrocatalyst for oxidation of the fuel, the sulphide being present at the anode surface in a sufficient amount to catalyze electrochemical oxidation of the fuel and being substantially immune to chemical and electrochemical attack under conditions of operation of the cell (1).   2. a method according to claim 1 characterised in that the ph is in the range of 6 to 10.   3. a method according to claim 1 characterised in that at least one transition metal includes copper, nickel, iron or cobalt.   4. a method according to claim 1 characgerised in that at least one lower sulphide present at the anode surface includes a sulphide having the nominal composition ni3s6, nis,   ni7s6, cu2s, cu9 55, cu1,75s1, co4s3, cu#fes3 or fexs, wherein    "x" is any whole or fractional number in the range of 1 to 2.     5. a method according to claim 1, wherein the electrolyte includes a conductive salt in solution, characterised in that the conductive salt is   nan03,    na2s04, nacl, kn03, k2s04,   kc1,      licl,      lin03,      li2so4,      csn03,      cs2so4,    cscl,   kh2po4'    k2hp04, nah2p04, na2hp04, nabf4, kbf4, na2sif6, k2sif6,   mg(bf4)2,    ca(bf4)2, mgsif6,   casif6,    mg(n03)2,   ca(n03)2,      mgc12,    mgso4,   cac12,    or a mixture containing at least one of these salts.   6. a method according to claim 1, wherein the electrolyte includes a buffer, characterised in that the buffer includes na2b407,   nab02,      nah2po4,      na2hpo4,    a corresponding potassium salt or a mixture of two or more of these salts.   7. a method according to claim 1 characterised in that the electrolyte is removed from the cell during operation of the cell (i), the c02 is removed from the electrolyte while the electrolyte is outside the cell (1), and the electrolyte from which   c02    has been removed is returned to the cell (1).   8. a method according to claim 7 wherein c02 is removed from the electrolyte continuously, the electrolyte is agitated to assist in removing c02 therefrom, or the electrolyte is agitated while contacting the electrolyte with a gas into which the c02 is released.    9. a method according to claim 8 characterised in that the electrolyte and gas contact one another in countercurrent flow while being agitated by flowing over baffle means.     10. a fuel cell for oxidizing hydrogen, hydrocarbons or other fuel according to the method of any preceding claim, characterised in that the cell (1) comprises: an aqueous electrolyte comprising water having a ph in the range of 5 to 10, an anode, for oxidizing the fuel, including at the surface of the anode (2) at least one lower sulphide of at least one transition metal, and an oxygen cathode, at least one lower sulphide being present at the surface of the anode in sufficient amount to catalyze electrochemical oxidation of the fuel, and substantially immune to chemical and electrochemical attack under cell operating conditions.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
