<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0017373
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19801015
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
C23F-11/08 <main>C23F-11/08</main> 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
stable compositions for use as corrosion inhibitors and method of corrosion inhibition in aqueous media.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
betz europ incus<sep>betz europe, inc.<sep>betz europe, inc.4636 somerton roadtrevose pennsylvania 19047us<sep>betz europe, inc. <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
geiger gary edwin<sep>may roger cletus<sep>geiger, gary edwin<sep>may, roger cletus<sep>geiger, gary edwin4156 whiting roadphiladelphia pennsylvania 19154us<sep>may, roger cletus537 fox roadglenside pennsylvania 19038us<sep>geiger, gary edwin <sep>may, roger cletus<sep>geiger, gary edwin4156 whiting roadphiladelphia pennsylvania 19154us<sep>may, roger cletus537 fox roadglenside pennsylvania 19038us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a composition is disclosed comprising a stable aqueous  solution of (i) water-soluble zinc compound and (ii) a  particular type of water-soluble polymer composed essen­ tially of moieties derived from acrylic acid and hydroxylated  lower alkyl acrylates.  the composition could additionally  comprise (iii) orthophosphate.  there is also disclosed a method for reducing corrosion  of metal surfaces in contact with an aqueous medium prone  to zinc precipitation which comprises adding to said aqueous  medium an inhibitor comprising water-soluble zinc com­ pound and copolymer of acrylic acid and hydroxylated lower  alkyl acrylate.  water-soluble orthophosphate can also be  used.  there is also disclosed a method of inhibiting the  formation of zinc scale forming conditions in which copolym­ er of acrylic acid and hydroxylated lower alkyl acrylate is  used as inhibitor.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
description stable compositions for use as corrosion inhibitors and method of corrosion inhibition in aquecus media the present invention is related to zinc-containing corrosion inhibitor treatments and treatment compositions he ability of zinc to inhibit the corrosion ot forro-rs metals is, indeed, well known. accordingly, soluble zinc salts are vital ingredient8 of many corrosion treatment programs. for example, u.s. 4,089,796 to harris¯et al discloses a corrosion inhibiting composition comprising zinc and hydrolyzed polymaleic anhydride or soluble salt thereon tnd benzotriazole. other exemplary patents disclosing such zinc containing treatments are u.s. 5,432,428 to wirth et al and u.s. 4,120,655 to crambes et al. an art-recognized major problem encountered with zinccontaining treatments, particularly in cooling water, is the un- controlled precipitation of zinc salts; because, to be effective, the zinc must reach the surfaces to be protected in a soluble fcrm. for example, the use of ortilophosphate in coinbanation with zinc as a cooling water treatment is well known as evidenced by u.s. 2,900,222 to kahler et al wherein phosphate, chromate and zinc are used in combinatlon. the orthophosphate can be provided as an actual addiction, or as a reversion product from any one of complex inorganic phosphate, organic phosphate or organic phosphonate. when orthophosphate and zinc are both present in the water, zinc phosphate precipitation becomes a concern. whether or not orthophosphate is present, the zinc could precipitate in other forms, for exainp7e, as zinc hydroxide or zinc silicate. the solubility of the various salts, that is, the retention of the respective salt constituents in ionic form, depends on such factors as water temperature and ph and ion concentrations. htirth et al states tilat althougel water temperatures can vary from 32 to 200 f, lower temperatures of 32 to 80 f are preferred because "zinc tends to remain in solution better in cooler waters." " this patent further states that alkaline waters, particularly above about ph 7.5, are relatively undesirable because "the dissolved zinc tends to deposit out or drop out much more rapidly in alkaline water." similarly, crambes et al points out that zinc salts are unstable in neutral or alkaline water and will precipitate with phosphates. thus, if any of these conditions are present, the aqueous medium becomes prone to zinc precipitation. because of the formation of this zinc scale, many of the surfaces in contact with the aqueous medium will foul and the amount of effective (soluble) corosion inhibitor present in the aqueous medium can be significantly reduced. although the present invention is considered to have general applicability to any aqueous system where zinc precipitation is a problem, ft is particularly useful in cooling water systems. accordingly, the invention will hereinafter be described as it re lates to cooling water systems. there has existed for a long time the need for a zinc containing corrosion inhibitor treatment which overcomes the above noted problems, and the present invention is considered to fulfill that need. according to the present invention, a corrosion in inhibitor treatment for metal surfaces exposed to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
    claims    1. a composition comprising an aqueous solution of  a water-soluble zinc compound, characterised in  that the solution also contains as a stabilizer a  water-soluble polymer comprising moieties derived  from acrylic or water-soluble salt thereof and  moieties of hydroxylated lower alkyl acrylate,   where     in the moieties of said polymer have the following  formulas: emi45.1       where r is hydrogen or a lower alkyl of from 1 to 3 carbon atoms; r1 is oh, nh2 or om where m is a watersoluble, cation; r2 is a   lower    alkyl of about 2 to 6 carbon atoms, r3 is h or lower alkyl of from 1 to 3 carbon atoms and the mole ratio of x:y is 1:4 to   36:1,     and further characterised in that on a weight basis said zinc compound comprises about   1    to 95% and said polymer comprises about 5 to   9$3%    of the total   amount    of watersoluble zinc compound and water-soluble   polymer.       2. a composition as claimed in claim   1,    characterised in that on a weight basis said zinc compound comprises about 4 to 85% and said polymer comprises about 15 to 96% of the total amount of water-soluble zinc compound and water-soluble polymer.      3.    a composition as claimed in claim   i,    characterised in that on a weight basis said zinc compound comprises about 5 to   70wh    and said polymer comprises about 30 to   95%    of the total amount of water soluble zinc compound and water-soluble polymer.    4. a composition as claimed in any one of claims   1    to   3,    characterised in that said polymer has a molecular weight of about 1,000 to 50,000.    5. a composition as claimed in claim 4, characterised in that said polymer has a molecular weight of about 2,000 to 6,000.      6.    a composition as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5, characterised in that the ph of said aqueous   solution    is about 6.5 to   9.5.       7. a composition as claimed in any one of   claims      i    to 6, characterised in that the   mole    ratio of x:y is about 1:1 to 11:1.    8. a composition as claimed in claim   7,    characterised in that the mole ratio x:y is about 1:1 to   5:1.       9. a composition as claimed in any one of claims   1    to 8, characterised in that the   polymer    is a copolymer of acrylic acid or water soluble salt thereof and hydroxypropyl acrylate.      10.    a composition as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 9, characterised in that it also contains a watersoluble orthophosphate or a precursor thereof.      ii.    a composition as claimed in any one of claims   i       to 10, characterised in that it additionally comprises  water-soluble chromate.    12. a composition as claimed in claim 10,  characterised in that on a weight basis, said zinc  compound comprises about 1 to   95%,    said orthophosphate  comprises about 1 to 95% and said polymer comprises about  5 to 99% of the total amount of water-soluble zinc  compound, water-soluble orthophosphate or precursor and  water-soluble polymer.      13.      a    composition as claimed in claim 10, charact  erised in that said zinc compound comprises about 5 to  85%, said orthophosphate comprises about 5 to   85%    and  said polymer comprises about 15 to 95% of the total  amount of water-soluble zinc compound, water-soluble  orthophosphate or precursor and water-soluble polymer.    14. a method for reducing the amount of corrosion  of metal surfaces in contact with an aqueous medium prone  to zinc precipitation characterised by adding to said 'aqueous medium in addition to a water-soluble   zine     compound an effective amount of a water-soluble polymer  as defined in any one of claims 1, 5, 6, 8, 9 and 10,  wherein said zinc compound is added in an amount  sufficient to provide from about 0.5 to about 25 parts  of zinc ion per million parts of aqueous medium, and  wherein said polymer is added in an amount of from about  0.5 to about 200 parts of polymer per million parts of  aqueous medium.    15. a method as claimed in claim 14, characterised  in that said zinc compound is added in an amount  sufficient to provide from about 2 to about 10 parts of  zinc ion per million parts of aqueous medium, and said  polymer is added in an amount of from about 2 to about 50  parts of polymer per million parts of aqueous medium.    16. a method as claimed in any one of claims 14 to  15, characterised in that said aqueous medium is cooing  water.        17.    a method as claimed in any one of claims 14 to 16, characterised in that said aqueous medium has a ph of from about 6.5 to about 9.5.    18. a method as claimed in any one of claims 14 to 17, characterised in that water-soluble orthophosphate, or a precursor thereof, is also added to said aqueous medium in an amount of from about   1    to about 200 parts per million.    19. a method as claimed in any one of claims 14 to 18, characterised in that the aqueous medium additionally comprises water soluble chromate.    20. a method as claimed in claim 18, wherein said orthophosphate or precursor thereof is added in an amount of from about 2 to about   50-parts    per million.      21.    a method of inhibiting the formation of zinc scale in an aqueous medium containing zinc ions udder scale forming conditions, which method is characterised by   adding    to said aqueous medium an effective amount for the purpose, of effective water-soluble polymer as defined in any one of claims 1, 5, 6, 8, 9   and10,    and wherein said polymer is added in an amount of from about 0.5 to about 200 parts per million parts of aqueous medium.     22. a method as claimed in claim 21, characterised in that said aqueous medium is cooling water.    23. a method as claimed in claim 22, characterised in that said aqueous medium contains phosphate ions which have been added as a treatment.    24. a method as claimed in any one of claims 21 to 23, characterised in that said zinc scale comprises at least one member selected from zinc hydroxide and zinc phosphate.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
