<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0014300
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800820
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
A61F-7/08 A61F-7/00 A61F-7/02 A61F-7/03 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
independent warming apparatus in particular for neuroarticular pathology therapy.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
wath agli<sep>wath ag<sep>wath ag9491 nendelnli<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
bernasconi guidoch<sep>bernasconi, guido<sep>bernasconi, guidovia ciseri 6ch-6900 luganoch<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
the apparatus permitting the use of heat as a therapeutic  principle for the neuroarticular pathologies (arthrosis, arth­ ritis, sciatica etc. ) comprising an independent source of heat  (20) which develops namely heat by catalytic reaction of a fuel  and a belt (37) for supporting said source adaptable to that  zone of the body which it is desired to treat.  a layer of material  resistant to heat of well determined thickness and thermal  conductivity is interposed between the body and the source of  heat (20) to regulate the surface temperature fixed by the  therapy.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
independent warming apparatus in particular for neuroarti cular pathology therapy. the present invention refers to an independent warming apparatus in particular suitable for neuroarticular pathology therapy. in the medical field the use of heat is known as a therapeutic principle in all neuroarticular pathologies such as, for example, arthrosis, arthritis, neuroradicolitis, sciatica and it is also known that the contribution of heat assumes the maximum efficacy when the patient can at the same time keep the painful joint in motion. the apparatus existing at the present time on the market are constituted by sources of heat which normally are not independent and therefore may be used by the patient only in positions of rest; there are two drawbacks constituted firstly by the lesser efficiency of the supply of heat and secondly by the obvious necessity of reducing the supply time in order not to cause excessive loss of time. the invention, the subject of the present patent, proposes to present an independent heating apparatus so as to ensure a supply of constant heat for a long period of time at the temperature most adapted to the therapy. another object of the invention is that of realizing an apparatus which may be applied to the patient rapidly and safely and allow complete freedom of movement of same, a non final scope of the present invention is that of making available an independent heating apparatus which is easily obtainable from elements commonly found in the trade and which in addition is able to give the fullest guarantees of reliability and safety in operation. the objects mentioned and others which will follow better in the following are obtained by an independent heating apparatus in particular for neuroarticular pathology therapies according to the invention comprising essentially an in dependent source of heat; a layer of heat resistant material applied to the opposite faces of the source of heat intended to be arranged parallel on the surface of the body of the patient so as to determine the surface temperature fixed for the therapy, the said material being arranged on one of the two faces of clasping means with holding means and keeping in position of the source of heat according to the zone of the body which it is desired to subject to the therapy. these and other working constructional features of the invention are made evident better from the detailed description which follows having as its object an apparatus according to the invention and illustrated in the attached dra- wings in which figure 1 shows the independent source of heat formed by a benzine heater suitable for the pocket covered with two layers of wool felt; figure 2 shows the supporting belt of the source of heat in the lumber zone; figure 3 shows the application of the apparatus in the lumber zone; figure 4 shows the supporting belt of the source of heat of the cervical zone; figure 5 shows the application of the apparatus in the cervical zone. referring to the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:   1. an independent heating apparatus in particular for neuroarticular pathology therapy,   ch2racterised    by comprising an independent source of heat; a layer of material resistant to heat applied to the opposite faces of the source of heat adapted to be arranged parallel to the surface of the body of the patient so as to determine the surface temperature fixed by the therapy, #the said material provided on one of the two faces of clasping means with supporting means and holding in position of the source of heat according to the zone of the body which it is desired to subject to therapy.   2. an apparatus according to the preceding claim, characterised in that the source of heat is constituted   by a    benzine heater suitable for the pocket, formed by a metal casing of substantially parallelepiped shape containing the fuel reservoir and the catalytic reaction for the production of heat without flame, the said casing being provided with vents for communication with the outside for the letting in of the air necessary for the catalytic reaction and for the exit of the generated heat.   3. an apparatus according to the preceding claims, characterised in that the layers of material resistant to heat applied to the faces of the independent source of heat is realized with wool felt of the thickness of three millimeters, density   0. 25    and hardness din 61200 m4.   4. an apparatus according to the preceding claims,   charade    terised by the presence, on the layer- of felt opposite that intended to adhere to the supporting means, of five bores having diameters equal to five millimetres and aligned  on the arms of a cross disposed according to the vents of the casing of the source of heat and, on the layer of felt intended to adhere to the supporting means, four bores in position corresponding to that of the bores of the opposite face occupying the three aligned positions along the smaller diameter of the casing of the source of heat and one of the remaining positions.   5. an apparatus according to the preceding claims, characterized in that the clasping means of the independent source of heat to the supporting means of same are constituted by a pull-off tape with the female portion fixed to the said supporting means and the male portion fixed to the source of heat.   6. an apparatus according to the preceding claims, characterised in that the supporting means of the source of heat, according to the lumber   sone    of the body, are constituted by a belt realized with a double layer of starched cotton fabric, provided with three portions of a female pulloff tape for the fixing of the independent source of heat in various positions, and provided in addition, on the extreme sides, with elastic tapes complete with adjusting clasps and an engaging member so as to allow a fixing of the belt to the body in circumferential positions like a girdle.   7. an apparatus according to the preceding claims, characterised in that the elastic tapes, two in number for each of the extreme sides of the belt, depart from distinct positions on the said extreme sides and the two converge from one part to a rectangular link, and two from the other part, to a belt comprising consecutively a female portion and a male portion of a pull-off tape.      8. an apparatus according to the preceding claims characterised in that the supporting means of the source of heat according to the cervical zone of the body, are constituted by a belt made with a double   layer -of-starched    cotton fabric provided with a female portion of a pull-off tape and suitably fixed to the ends from which a continuous elastic tape derives, comprising adjusting clasps so as to allow a fixing of the belt to the body on a line which, after having gripped the cervical zone goes down the thorax, passes under the arm-pits and terminates on the back.   9. an independent heating apparatus in particular for   neu-      roarticular    pathology therapy according to the preceding claims and as described and illustrated for the purpose specified.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
