<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0014447
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800820
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B65D-79/02 A61L-2/26 A61L-2/28 A61B-19/02 B65D-33/20 C12Q-1/22 A61B-19/00 G01N-31/22 <main>A61L-2/26</main> G01L-5/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
sterilization pouch with insertable sterilization indicator.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
arvey corpus<sep>arvey corporation<sep>arvey corporation3450 north kimball avenuechicago illinois 60618us<sep>arvey corporation<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
hirsch arthur<sep>hirsch, arthur<sep>hirsch, arthur750 north broad streetelizabeth, new jersey 07208us<sep>hirsch, arthur<sep>hirsch, arthur750 north broad streetelizabeth, new jersey 07208us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a sterilizable pouch is provided with first and second  opposing webs (10, 11) which are initially sealed together  except for a region defining an open mouth.  at least one of the  webs (10, 11) has a strip (17) of adhesive adjacent the mouth  with a peelable release strip (102) superposed upon and  adhering to the adhesive strip (17) for masking the adhesive  strip (17) from external contact before the pouch is closed and  sealed.  the peelable release strip (102) includes an indicator  means (110) for indicating its exposure to a predetermined  sterilization condition.  the indicator means (110) has an initial  appearance signifying that the indicator means (110) has not  been subjected to the predetermined sterilization condition  and is adapted to change to a final appearance after exposure  to the predetermined sterilization condition for indicating  such exposure.  to use the pouch, an article is inserted within  the pouch, the peelable release strip (102) is removed from the  adhesive and placed within the pouch next to the article, and  the adhesive strip (17) on one of the webs (10, 11) is brought  into contact with the other web to close the mouth of the  pouch.  when the pouch is sterilized, the indicator means (110)  on the peelable release strip (102) within the pouch changes  appearance to indicate the attainment of the predetermined  sterilization condition within the pouch.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
description pressure sensitive closure pouch with insertable sterilization indicator technical field the present invention relates to sterilizable pouches used in medical facilities to sterilize patient care articles and instruments. more particularly, the present invention is directed to a pouch that is easy to use and has an integral indicator which can be placed inside of the pouch for indicating that a predetermined sterilization condition has been attained within the pouch. background art disposable pouches, including self-sealing pouches, are well known. also known are sterilizable pouches which are permeable to the sterilizing medium such as steam or ethylene oxide. usually, the pouch has two webs, one of which may be a transparent thermoplastic material to pro vide observation of the contents of the pouch and the other of which may be a paper or fiber material having a permeability suitable for use with the particular sterilizing medium employed. in addition it is known in the medical field to provide pouches having an integrally formed indicator means, usually an impregnated chemical substance on the exterior surface of the pouch. the impregnated substance typically changes color after the pouch has been sterilized. indicating inks, such as chemically reactive inks, are also available for use as sterilization indicators. such ink is available for use with ethylene oxide sterilization and the ink changes color on exposure to steri lization conditions. typically, the exterior surface of some prior art pouches may be impregnated with such ink to form a sterilization indicator integral with the wall of the pouch. although the pouches that have an exterior surface sterilization indicator are available, many medical institutions choose not to rely on the exterior surface sterilization indicator as sole evidence that the inside of the pouch, and the article contained therein, has been properly sterilized. as a result, many medical institutions use one of a number of commercially available separate indicator devices, usually in the form of small strips of material, which can be inserted within the sterilizable pouch next to the article contained therein and which change appearance or color upon sterilization. this provides direct evidence that the interior of the pouch, and hence the article therein, has been properly sterilized. such commercially available indicator strips are typically impregnated with a material which is sensitive to, and usually chemically reacts with, the sterilizing medium, in such a manner so as to change appearance (e.g., color) when sufficient sterilization conditions have been achieved. for example, one such strip can be used with steam sterilization in autoclave units and includes a chemical-impregnated structure which turns to a different color when the minimum sterilization conditions of moisture, temperature and time have been achieved. though the separate indicator strips can provide adequate indication of the achievement of proper sterilization within the pouches, use of such strips has certain disadvantages. first, individual strips must be separately purchased. second, adequate supplies of the strips must be maintained. third, even if an adequate supply of indicator strips is available, the sudply of strips must be provided
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
it is claimed:    1. in a sterilizable pouch comprising first and second opposing webs (10,   .11),    said first web (11) including a flap (18) extending outwardly beyond one edge of the second web (10), said edge of said second web   being    free of said first web (11) to provide an open mouth for said pouch, means sealing said first and   second    webs (10, 11) to one another to close said pouch except for said open mouth, sealing means for closing the mouth of said pouch and including a strip (17) of adhesive on one of said webs (10, 11) adjacent to and spaced from said open mouth, thereby defining an adhesire-free zone (y) between said adhesive strip and said (pen mouth means forming a fold line at the edge of said adhesive strip (17) closest to said open mouth,  said   adhesive    means having a sufficient width whereby when   scid    flap (18) is folded about said fold line (a) said open mouth is sealed by said adhesive means, and (b) said   ad.#esive-free.zone    (y) and an area on the web without   saic    adhesive strip adjacent to said open mouth are engaged   iy    said adhesive means to thereby form a   contamina.#t-proof    seal in said pouch, the improvement comprising:    cover    means superposed upon and adhering to said adhesive strip (17) for masking said adhesive strip from external   contact    before said pouch is closed and sealed, said cover   arans    (102) including an indicator means (110)   for indicating # i'": :s exposure to a predetermined    sterilization cordition, said indicator means having an initial   appearance    signifying that the indicator means (110) has not   be?z    subject to said predetermined sterilization co;!dition and further being adapted to change to a final appearance upon exposure to said predetermined   ste ilization    condition for indicating such exposure, said color means being removable from said sealing means (17) whereby, when said cover means is removed from said saling means (17) and placed in said  pouch and when said pouch is sealed and sterilized, said indicator means (110) changes from said initial appearance to said final appearance to indicate the attainment of said predetermined sterilization condition within said pouch.    2. in a sterilizable pouch comprising first and second opposing webs (10, 11) sealed together along two peripheral side edges (13, 14), and unsealed edge of said first web (11) extending beyond the opposing lip edge (19) of the second web (10) to form a flap (18), one of said webs (10, 11) having sealing means (17) disposed adjacent to the lip edge (19) of the second web (10), said sealing means (17) having sufficient width to permit sealing of said first and second web (10, 11) when the flap (18) is folded over to close the pouch, the improvement comprising: :  cover means (102) adhering to said sealing means for masking said sealing means (17) from external contact before said pouch is closed and sealed, said cover means including an indicator means (110) for indicating its exposure to a predetermined sterilization condition, said indicator means (110) having an initial appearance and adapted to present a different, final appearance upon exposure to said predetermined sterilization condition, said cover means (102) being removable from said sealing means (17) whereby, when said cover means is removed from said sealing means and placed in said pouch and when said pouch is sealed and sterilized, said indicator means (110) changes from said initial appearance to said final appearance to indicate the attainment of said predetermined sterilization condition within said pouch.    3. in a sterilization pouch comprising first and second opposing webs (10, 11) which are sealed together except for a region defining an open mouth, sealing means for closing the mouth of said pouch and including a strip (17) of adhesive on at least one  of said webs adjacent to said open mouth, the improvement comprising: :  cover means (102) superposed upon and adhering to said adhesive strip (17) for masking said adhesive strip from external contact before said pouch is closed and sealed, said cover means including an indicator means (110) for indicating exposure to a predetermined sterilization condition, said indicators means (110) having an initial appearance signifying that the indicator means (110) has not been subjected to said predetermined sterilization condition and further being adapted to change to a final appearance upon exposure to said predetermined sterilization condition for indicating such exposure, said cover means (102) being removable from said sealing means (17) whereby, when said cover means is removed from said sealing means and placed in said pouch and when said pouch is sealed and sterilized,   said indicator means (110) changes from said initial appearance to said final apperance to indicate the attainment of said predetermined sterilization condition within said pouch.    4. the improvement in accordance with claim 3 in which said closure means is a peelable release strip (102), said strip being easily peelable from said sealing means (17).    5. the improvement in accordance with claim 3 in which said indicator means (110) includes a substance impregnated in said closure means (102) which is adapted to change color from said initial appearance to said final appearance upon exposure to said predetermined sterilization condition.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
