<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0014481
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800820
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
F28F-9/02 F28F-21/00 F28D-1/03 F28F-3/12 F28F-3/04 F28F-21/08 F28D-1/02 F28F-3/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
heat exchange wall member, heat exchange channel element and heat exchanger employing same
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
union carbide corpus<sep>union carbide corporation<sep>union carbide corporation39 old ridgebury roaddanbury connecticut 06817us <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
cotter ray wallace ca  <sep>cotter, ray wallace<sep>cotter, ray wallace284 lorraine drivebaie d'urfe quebec h9x 2r1ca<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a heat exchange wall member having a multiplicity of parallel, elongated wall projection portions formed therefrom.  a multiplicity of channels formed from such wall members may be disposed in a stacked array to form a heat exchanger assembly. 
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
this invention relates to a heat exchange channel element having a multiplicity of wall projection portions disposed c its surface and to a heat exchanger comprising channel elements formed from such wall members. u. s. patent no. 3,757,856 issued september 11, 1973 to l. c. kun discloses a thin-walled, light-weight heat exchange channel element having on a portion of its wall surface isostress contours with substantially uniformly disposed unidirectional wall supporting projections. the isostress surface disclosed in the kun patent is a continuously curved surface having a multi plicity of' isostress countours wherein each contour has a multiplicity of radii with theoretically no flat segments anc reseiles the curved contour of a shear-free "soap bubble" membrane. the isostress contoured heat exchange channel element may suitably be formed as a longitudinally extending channel open at its extremities, whereby a first heat exchange fluid may be flowed trough the interior of the channel element in heat exchange with a second heat exchange medium flowed over the exterior surface of t'ne channel ee-etz. such beat exchange channel elements may usefully be employed in any application where there is substantial pressure difference between the respective first and second heat exchange media and has particular utility as incorporated in an automotive radiator. as employed in an automotive radiator or heater, a multiplicity of the kun heat exchange channel elements are serially stacked in an array and arranged so that the wall projections 3n one channel element mate with and abut against corresponding wall projections on an adjacent channel element. a heat exchanger fabricated in this manner has a first set of passages defined by and bound within the channel wall mercers and a second set of passages defined by and disposed between the channel elements. during operation, high internal coolant pressures (of the first heat exchange med =n flowed through the interior passages of the channel elements) on the order of 20 psig and higher may be accommodated, since in the stacked array the internal pressure is balanced by the support function of the adjacent channel element projections. the heat exchanger can thus be economically and quickly fabricated, with the stacked channel element assembly (heat exchanger core) being disposed within a mechanically simple load-bearing structural frame assembly. the provision of the isostress-contoured = - --e =a=er c the afore=entioned k-= pater permits the channel element to be readily formed or thin and lightweight materials of construction such as aluminum. for example, the channel element may be stamped from thin aluminum sheet stock having a thickness of for example on the order of 8 - 10 mils. this ability to use thin sheet metal material in fabricating channel elements has several inherent advantages, particularly in application to automotive radiators and heaters. first, the use of low material thicknesses for the heat exchanger channel elements is associated with reduced material costs and reduced material weight for the fabricated heat exchanger. the reduction in weight permits a given automobile power plant (internal combustion engine) to provide increased transportation
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
what is claimed is:    1. a heat exchange wall member of thermally conductive material having a multiplicity of wall projection   portions    distributed across the wall member surface and  outwardly extending/therefrom with load-bearing end segments at their extremities, whereby said wall member may be supported abuttingly against an adjacent structural member by said load-bearing end segments of said wall projection portions, characterized in that: :  said wall projection portions extend  elongately on said wall member surface with the load   nearing    segments thereof having an aspect ratio   (d2/d1)     of at least 10, wherein d2= length of the major axis of  said wall projection portion load-bearing end segment  measured in the base plane of the wall member and   dl      =     length of the minor axis of said wall projection portion  load-bearing end segment measured in the base plane of the  wall member,  said wall projection portions -are orient  ed on said wall member surface with the major axes of  said load-bearing end segments of said   wall- projection     portions aligned substantially parallel to one another; ;  and    said wall projection portions have a dimensional size and a dimensional relationship therebetween defined by a d dimension of between about 0.2 and 3.0 inch, a h/d ratio of between about 0.05 and 0.5, and a   d1dl    ratio of between   about 1.5 and 50,    wherein:h equals the maximum height measured perpendicularly from the base plane of the wall member to the innermost point on the wall member surface between adjacent wall surface projections; d equals the spacing between the major axes of load-bearing end segments of adjacent wall projection portions as measured perpendicularly to said major axes in the base plane of the wall member;  and the base plane of the wall   member      ir    a plane containing the extremities of wall surface projections extending outwardly from the wall member surface to a uniform extent.    2. - a heat   exche    channel element including two spaced-apart wall members of thermally conductive material bounding a fluid flow channel and having a multiplicity of wall projection portions distributed  outwardly across the wall member surface and   extending/therefrom    with load-bearing end segments at their extremeties, whereby said channel element may be supported abuttingly against an adjacent structural member by said loadbearing end segments of said wall projection portions, characterized in that: :    said wall projection portions extend elongately on said wall member surface with the loadbearing segments thereof having an aspect ratio (d2/dl) of at least 10, wherein d2= length of the major axis of said wall projection portion load-bearing end   segment    measured in the base plane of the wall member and   dl    length of the minor axis of said wall projection portion load-bearing end segment measured in the base plane of the wall member;  said wall projection portions are oriented on said wall member surface with the major axes of said load-bearing end segments of said wall projection portions aligned substantially parallel to one   mnnthrr; ;    and  said wall projection portions have a dimensional size and a dimensional relationship therebetween defined by a d dimension of between about 0.2 and '3.0 inch, a hid ratio of between about 0.05 and   0.3,    and a d/dl ratio of between about   1.5 and 54      wherein    equals the maximum height measured perpendicularly from the base plane of the wall member to the innermost point on the wall member surface between adjacent wall surface projections; d equals the spacing between the major axes of   7oad-bearing    end segments of adjacent wall projection portions as measured perpendicularly to said major axes in the bese  plane of the wall member;  and the base plane of the wall member is a plane containing the extremities of wall surface projections extending outwardly from the wall member surface to a uniform extent.    3. a heat exchange channel element according  to claim 2 wherein said two spaced-apart wall members  constitite side walls of the channel element and are  spaced apart by edge walls, with said side walls and  edge walls each having a thickness of between about 0.003  and 0.25 inch.    4. a heat exchange channel element according  to claim3 wherein said side walls and edge walls are  formed of aluminum and have a thickness of between about    0.003    and   o,lo    inch.    5. a heat exchange channel element according  to claim 2 which extends longitudinally and has an elongated cross section bound by said two spaced-apart wall members as side walls spaced apart by edge walls, said channel element having a first fluid entrance opening at one end and a first fluid exit opening at the opposite end.    6. a heat exchange channel element according to claim 5 wherein said wall projection portions extend across substantially the full width of the side wall and are oriented with the major axes of said wall projection portion load bearing end segments substantially perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the channel element.    7. apparatus according to claim 1 or 2 wherein the wall surface between adjacent wall projection portions is substantially planar.      8.    apparatus according to claim 1 or 2 wherein the wall member surface between adjacent wall projection portions is concavely curved.      98    apparatus according to claim 1 or 2 wherein the wall surface between adjacent wall projection portions has an elevational contour which is concavely circular.    10. a heat exchanger comprising at least one heat exchange channel element according to claim 2.      1l.    a heat exchanger comprising a multiplicity  of channel elements according to claim 2 each having an elongated cross section bound by said wall members as side walls spaced apart by edge walls, said channel elements being longitudinally aligned in parallel spaced relation each with a first fluid entrance opening at one end and a first fluid exit opening at the opposite end, and common inlet manifold means and common exit manifold means respectively associated with said first fluid entrance openings and said first fluid exit openings.     12. a heat exchanger according to claim 11 wherein the load-bearing end segments of wall projection portions of said channel elements are shaped and arranged for mating with and abutting against load-bearing end segments of the projection portions of an adjacent channel element side wall, with the wall surface portions between said projection portions thereby forming spaces between adjacent channels through which a second fluid may be flowed in heat exchange with the first fluid.    13. a heat exchanger according to   claim    12 comprising secondary surface fins associated with said channel elements.    14. a heat exchanger according to claim 11 wherein said multiplicity of channel elements are disposed in a stacked array with secondary surface platelike members being disposed between adjacent channel   elements with the load bearing end segments of the wall projection portions of the channel elements bring shaped and arranged for mating with and abutting against said secondary surface members, whereby said secondary surface members are maintained in thermal contact with said channel elements along the abutting load-bearing end segments thereof.    15. a heat exchanger according to claim 14 wherein said secondary surface members are substantially planar.    16. a heat exchanger according to claim 14 wherein said secondary surface members have a multiplicity of surface distortions distributed across portions of their surfaces which are not in abutting contact with channel element load-bearing segments.    17. a heat exchanger according to claim 16 wherein said surface distortions of said secondary surface members comprise parallel slats and slotted apertures arranged in a   louvered    configuration across the width of the secondary surface member.    18. apparatus according to claim 1 or 2 wherein  said aspect ratio   (d2/dl)    is at least   30     19. apparatus according  to claim 1 or 2 wherein said wall projection protions extend outwardly to a uniform extent and have flat load-bearing end segments at their extremities.    20. apparatus according to claim i or 2 wherein:  h is between about 0.035 and 0.080 inch; d is between about  0.4 and 1.1 inch: and   dl    is between about 0.01 and 0.05 inch.    21. a heat exchanger including a stacked array of longitudinally extending channel elements each having two   spaced-apartwallmembers    of thermally conductive material bounding a fluid flow channel and a multiplicity of wall projection portions formed from each wall member being distributed across the wall member surface and extending outwardly therefrom to a uniform extent with flat load-bearing end segments at their extremities, whereby said channel elements may be supported abuttingly against adjacent structural members said load-bearing end segments of said wall projection portions, characterized in that: :  said channel element wall projection portions extend elongately across substantially the full width of said wall member surfaces of said channel elements with the load-bearing segments thereof having an aspect ratio   (d2/dl)    of at least 30, wherein d   =       2    length of the major axis of said wall projection portion load-bearing end segment measured in the base plane of  the wa..1 member and   dl    = length of the minor axis of said wall   projection    portion load-bearing end segment measured in the   )ase    plane of the wall member; ;  said channel element wall projection portions are oriented on said wall member surf aces of said channel elements with the major axes of said load-bearing end   seg1nts    of said wall projection portions aligned substantia   wy    parallel to one another and substantially per   pendicu.    to the longitudinal axes of said channel elements and said channel element wall projection portions having a dimensional size and a dimensional relationshi therebetween defined by a d dimension of between   about    0.2 and 3.0 inch, a h/d ratio of between about 0.05 and 0.5,   a@      d/dl    ratio of between about 1.5 and 50, wherein: : h equals   tb    maximum height measured perpendicularly from the   bas    plane of the channel element wall member to  the   innermosioint    on the wall member surface between  adjacent   wall:wlrface    projections of the channel element; d equals the   soling    between the major axes of load-bearing  end segments   @@@djacent    wall projection portions of the  channel   element    measured perpendicularly to said  major axes in ti base plane of the channel  element member; ;   @@    the base plane of the channel  element wall memb is a plane containing the load  bearing segments   r      he    wall surface projections of said  wall   member.         22. apparatus according to claim 1 or 2 wherein said wall projection portions are formed from said wall member.    23. apparatus   wording    to claim 1 or 2 wherein the h/d ratio is between about 0.05 and 0.4.    24. a heat exchanger according to claim 11 wherein said channel elements are disposed in a stacked array with their longitudinal axes lying in a common plane and said stacked array contains at least 40 channel elements per foot width thereof, with the width of said stacked array being measured in said common plane in a   direction      perpendicular      to   the channel element longitudinal   axes.       25. a heat exchange wall member according to claim 1 wherein said wall projection portions extend   uainterruptedly    across   substantially    the full extent of said wall member in the direction of elongation of said wall projection portions.    26. a heat exchanger comprising at least one heat exchange wall member according to claim 1.    27. a heat exchanger according to claim 26 wherein the load-bearing end segments of wall projection portions of said wall member are shaped and arranged for mating with and abutting against load-bearing end segments of the projection portions of an adjacent wall member, with the   wa71    surface portions between said projection  portions thereby forming spaces between adjacent wall members through which a second fluid may be flowed in heat exchange with a first fluid on the other side of said wall member.    28. a heat exchanger according to claim 27 wherein a multiplicity of wall members are disposed in a stacked array with secondary surface plate-like members being disposed between adjacent wall members with the load bearing end segments of the wall projection portions of the wall members being shaped and arranged for mating with and abutting against said secondary surface members, whereby said secondary surface members are maintained in thermal contact with said wall members along the abutting loadbearing end   sege=ts    thereof.     29. a heat exchanger according to claim 28 wherein said secondary surface members are substantially planar.    30. a heat exchanger according to claim 28 wherein said secondary surface members have a multiplicity of surface distortions distributed across portions of their surfaces which are not in   abutting 'contact    with channel element load-bearing segments.    31. a heat exchanger according to claim 30 wherein said surface distortions of said secondary surface members comprise parallel slats and slotted apertures arranged in a louvered configuration across the width of the secondary surface member.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
