<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0011671
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800611
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
G09C-1/06 <main>G07C-11/00</main> G06K-9/52 G07C-9/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
signature verification system and method of manufacturing a document for an authorized user.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
opticode incus<sep>opticode, inc.<sep>transaction sciences corporation2745 lafitte avenuenew orleans, louisianaus<sep>transaction sciences corporation<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
sziklai george clifford<sep>sziklai, george clifford<sep>sziklai, george clifford26900 st. francis roadlos altos hills calif. 94022us<sep>sziklai, george clifford<sep>sziklai, george clifford26900 st. francis roadlos altos hills calif. 94022us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
signature verification systems are disclosed which  include documents each of which bears a cryptographic rep足 resentation of a function of a position-invariant transform of a  reference signature of an authorized user thereof.  on some of  these documents the cryptographic representation is a digital  image of a logarithmic function of the fourier spectrum of the  reference signature displayed as an intensity function the  pixels of which have been recollocated in accordance with a  cryptokey which is represented on the document.  apparatus  (24) are disclosed for use in producing such cryptog足 raphic representations on documents.  apparatus (36)  are disclosed for verifying documents bearing such cryp足 tographic representations and also bearing specimens of the  corresponding reference signatures.  methods of signature  verification using documents bearing such cryptographic rep足 resentations and specimens of said reference signatures are  also disclosed.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
signature verification systems the present invention relates to signature verification systems whereby to provide security in financial transactions, access to buildings and areas, and the like, and more particularly to methods and apparatus to be employed in such systems, including cryptographically encoded documents, apparatus for use in producing such documents, and apparatus for utilizing such documents in the verification of specimen signatures made by authorized users of such documents. methods and apparatus for the verification of handwritten signatures in order to provide security in financial transactions, access to buildings and areas, and the like are known in the prior art. such prior art methods and apparatus are disclosed, for example, in the following united states letters patent: 3,676,000 (hereinafter "mayer-dobbins '000"); 3,781,109 (hereinafter "mayer-dobbins '109"); 3,178,993 (hereinafter "ferris"); 3,166,625 (hereinafter "brumley"), 3,955,178 (hereinafter "warfel"), 3,620,590 (hereinafter "barker"); 3,579,186 (hereinafter "johnson"); 3,806,704 (hereinafter "shinal"); and 3,643,216 (hereinafter "greenaway"). the systems of these prior art patents suffer from one or more of the following disadvantages: (1) the document verifying devices of most of these systems are not fully automatic, or (2) the document verifying devices of these systems are not autonomous or self-contained, and thus they involve elaborate and extensive communication networks for the transmission of signature comparison data, or (3) they are holographic, and thus require that every document be provided with an inset of photographic film bearing a hologram, or (4) they do not provide any means of authenticating the signature comparison data recorded on each document (usually in cryptographic form) to determine whether the signature comparison data on a particular document was derived from an authentic reference signature of an authorized user of the document. as is well known to those having ordinary skill in the art, a serious need exists for fully automatic systems for both verifying and authenticating handwritten signatures of authorized users of documents such as bank checks, savings account passbooks, credit cards, identification cards, and the like, especially in the banking industry where check processing facilities are faced with the problem of examining of many thousands of checks per day, and detecting and returning fraudulent checks within a very short period of time, sometimes as little as 24 to 48 hours. it is anticipated that this burden will be considerably exacerbated in the near future, when check processing systems now under test or consideration are adopted by the banking industry. among these systems are those now called "bulk-filing, cycle-sorting", and "check safekeeping". accordingly, it is an object of the present invention to provide systems for automatically verifying, or verifying and authenticating, specimen signatures on documents without the use of expensive and elaborate communication systems for conveying signature comparison data from large numbers of remote signature data storage points. more particularly, it is an object of the present invention to provide systems for automatically verifying, or verifying and authenticating, specimen signatures on documents, in which systems the document readers or document examining devices are completely autonomous, i.e., derive all of their signature comparison information from the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:   1. a method of signature verification comprising the step of reproducing on a document a representation of a function of a position-invariant transform of a reference signature of an authorized user thereof.   2. a method as claimed in claim 1 in which said function of a position-invariant transform comprises a fourier spectrum.   3. a method of signature verification and authentication comprising the step of reproducing on a document a representation of a function of a position-invariant transform of a reference signature of an authorized user thereof modified in accordance with at least one indicium represented thereon which identifies said user therewith.   4. a method of signature verification and authentication as claimed in claim 3 in which said at least one indicium is a part of an account code designation.   5. a method of signature verification, comprising the steps of: reproducing on a document a cryptographic representation of a function of a position-invariant transform of a reference signature of an authorized user thereof; and reproducing on said document a key to said cryptographic representation comprising at least one indicium.   6. a method as claimed in claim 5 in which said cryptographic representation is a digital image of a function of the fourier spectrum of said reference signature, the pixels of which have been recollocated in accordance with a predetermined mode of transposition corresponding to said key.     7. a method of verifying a document bearing a representation of a function of a position-invariant transform of a reference signature of an authorized user thereof and a specimen of said reference signature, comprising the steps of: producing from said specimen signature a representation of said function of said position-invariant transform thereof; and comparing said representations.   8. apparatus for verifying a document bearing a representation of a function of a position-invariant transform of a reference signature of an authorized user thereof, and a specimen of said reference signature, comprising: means for producing from said specimen signature a representation of said function of said position-invariant transform thereof; and means for comparing said representations.   9. apparatus for verifying a document bearing a cryptographic representation of a function of a position-invariant transform of a reference signature of an authorized user thereof, a key to said cryptographic representation, and a specimen of said reference signature, comprising: means for producing from said specimen signature an unencrypted representation of said function of said position-invariant transform thereof; means for decrypting said cryptographic representation in accordance with said key to produce an unencrypted representation of said function of said positioninvariant transform of said reference signature; and means for comparing said unencrypted representations.    10. a document bearing a representation of a function of a position-invariant transform of a reference signature of an authorized user thereof.   11. a document bearing a representation of a function of the fourier transform of a reference signature of an author ized user thereof.     12. a document as claimed in claim 11 in which said representation is substantially devoid of component light wave phase information.   13. a document bearing: a cryptographic representation of a function of a position-invariant transform of a reference signature of an authorized user thereof; and indicia constituting a key to said cryptographic representation.   14. a document as claimed in claim 13 in which said transform is a fourier transform.   15. a document as claimed in claim 13 in which said indicia are symbols of an account code designation.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
