<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0014276
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800820
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
F23G-7/00 F24D-11/00 C02F-1/02 C02F-9/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
integrated sewage treatment system.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
nealy robert h<sep>nealy, robert h.<sep>nealy, robert h.365-c11 newtown roadwarminster pennsylvania 18974us<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
nealy robert h<sep>nealy, robert h.<sep>nealy, robert h.365-c11 newtown roadwarminster pennsylvania 18974us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
sewage is divided (32) into liquid and solid components;  the latter is incinerated (50) and the high temperature gases  from the combustion are used for sterilizing (56) the liquid  component; the residual heat of the sterilized liquid is used for  modifying spare temperatures (104) and for heating water  (88).  the combustion step may be omitted.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
"integrated sewage treatment system we desire to correct the following clerical error in the specification: page 13, line 26 change "sterilizer 76" to --sterilizer 56- claim 3, line 1 change "the invention" to -- the system - emi1.1 integrated sewage treatment system objectives or the invention a principal objective of the invention is to provide communal protection against healt hazard and aesthetically offensive emanation, independent of soil biology and the soil mechanics pertaining on the site which might originate in a building constructed and occupied thereon. a further objective of the invention is to enhance the institutional reliability of the communal protection provided by utili-inv only means which lend themselves to total automation and avoiding all techniques requiring that chemical reactants be added to the sewage treatment process another important objective of the invention is to intrinsically bias the sewage treatment function in favor of being maintained in good working order by reciprocally integratr.- it with other functions normally construed <rti id=3.8> as being essential within a building for the physica'. comfort and convenience of the occupants. underlying this objective of "intrinsic bias" is a principle in the public regulation of on-site sewage treatment and disposal than has come to be known in the regulatory community as "institutional reliability." that principle is not to be confused with the usua and ordinary ideas of equipment or process reliability which focus on considerations intrinsic to the equipment or process and do not impel user contributions to their reliability. certainly the ordinary and usual ideas of reliability are relevant to on-site sewage treatment and disposal, but institutional reliability goes well beyond this to address an unusual situation in which the failures, of any of a multitude of individual users for any of 2 myriad of reasons, to make the contributions required of the.n, in the form of unremitting attention to the integrity and continuity of system operations, might bring down penalties, not alone on themselves but on the public-at-large as well, in the form of radiating epidemic disease and ecological damage, the sources of which it could be virtually impossible to pin-point and correct before substantial public injury had been experienced. it is fundamental to the idea of intrinsic bias, and correspondinsly to the principle of institutional reliability that given the economic, social, and career pressures and distructions of daily family life and the variations, and combinations of variations, that exist in society with respect to intelligence, education, and personality, an individual user may more or less frequently and persistently perceive his personal interest as diverging from the public interest with regarc to is on-site sewage treatment and disposal system and the undeviating maintenance of the integrity of its processes. in a "stand-alone" system, such a perceived divergence could lead to the failure to provide necessary consumable supplies and to the neglect of maintenance and repairs and, hence, the public penalties cited above. moreover, with many millions of systems in use, sufficiently close public surveillance to prevent their occurrence could not be accomplished,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
i   claim:       1. an integrated system for modification of the natural temperatures which would   otherwise    prevail   within    a building, for the heatin of water as required for human purposes, and for treating of domestic sewage generated within said space to acceptable community disposal standards comprising  a vessel receiving the waste from an enclosed  living space  a filter dividinc said waste into a liquid  component and a slurry component,  a homogenizer receiving said slurry component,  a collector receiving said liquid component,  a unit receiving   sid    liquid component from  said collector,  a fuel source supplying pre-selected amounts of  - fuel to said   homogenizer    wherein said slurry  and said fuel are caused to form a mixture,  a burner to incinerate said mixture and form high  temperature   gases,    means    to transmit said   high    temperature   gases     through said   unit    to heat and sterilize said liquid  component, and  heat transfer means for utilizing the heat from  said liquid component for energy to energize integrated  space temperature modification and water heating functions.      1.    the   system:      of      claim 1    wherein a   scrubber    treats said high temperature   gases    prior to their trar.smission to said unit.      3. the invention of   claim    2 wherein said scrubber includes means to eliminate deleterious gases from said high temperature gases.      a    the system of claim 1 wherein said heat transfer means includes first and second storage means to receive the liquid subsequent to its sterilization and prior to its disposal.      5.    the system of claim 1 wherein said means includes a conduit system following a tortuous   p?th    through said unit.    6. the system of claim 1 wherein a thermostat is mounted to said unit, a timer is operatively connected to said thermostat and said timer is actuated by said thermostat to insure the sterilization of said liquid component by said high temperature gases.    7. the system of claim 1 wherein valving sequence means  controls the flow of said fuel and said components.    8. an integrated system   ###     means to collect raw human excrement and other combustible  organic wastes normally associated with processes of human  living and dividing same into substantially solid-free liquid  component and a slurry component,    second means to raise the temperature of said slurry component to a temperature level above the flash temperature of said slurry, whereby high temperature gases are formed,  third means to pass said high temperature gasses through said liquid component in heat exchange relationship therewith,   thereby    sterilizing it,   and     fourth means to utilize the residual heat in the now sterilized   liquid      coponen t    to energize   integrated    space temperature modification and water heating functions.   9. the process of   treating    and utilizing human wastes comprising the steps of:    collecting    the wastes   r    a container,  dividing said wastes into a liquid component and a slurry   component,       raising    the temperature of said slurry to a   temperature    level above the flash temperature of said slurry,   thereby    producing high temperature gases,  passing said high temperature gases through said liquid component in heat exchange   relationanip      therewith    to heat and sterilize said liquid component, and  transferring the heated liquid component for use to energize integrated enclosed-space temperature modificati and water heating equipment.   10. an integrated system comprising:  (a)   means      td    collect   raw      human    excrement   a-,    other combustible organic   wastes      normally    associated   with    processes of human livid dividing same into a   substantially    solid-free   liquid    component  and a slurry component; ;  (b) second means to generate high temperature gases from said   slurry      ir      raising    the temperature of said slurry to a temperature level above the flash   temperature    of said slurry  (c) third means to thermally sterilize said liquid component by passing said high temperature gases   through    said   liquid    component in   heat      exchange    relationship   therewith;      and     (d) fourth means to   utilize    the residual heat   in    the now sterilized liquid component to energise integrated space temperature modification and water heating functions.      ii.    an   integrated      sewage    treatment systemcomprising:  (a) first means for collecting domestic sewage composed of raw human excrement and other organic and inorganic   wastes    entrained in transport water;  (b) an autoclave wherein said sewage is subjected to pressurized liquid-phase thermal sterilization;  (c) second means for   regeneratlvely    utilizing the thermal energy contained in said sewage after sterilization to energize space temperature modification and water heating functions normally associated with   human      domestic      lie; ;    and  (d)   third      means    for disposing of   said      sewage    after hermal energy has been utilized and depleted 12. the system of claim   11    and further comprising fifth means for comminuting the insoluble solids entrained in said sewage prior to its thermal sterilization.      13.   an    integrated system comprising,  means to collect raw human excrement and other combustible organic wastes   normally      associated    with processes of human living and dividing same into substantially solid-free liquid component and a slurry component,  second means to raise the temperature of said slurry component to a temperature level above the flash temperature of said slurry, whereby high temperature gases are formed,  third means to pass   said      hign    temperature gases   through    said liquid component in heat exchange relationship therewith, thereby sterilizing it,  and  fourth cans to utilize the residual heat in the   flow    sterilized liquid   component    to enercize at least one other thermally motivated household function.     17 the process of treating and utilizing   human    wastes comprising the steps   of:     collecting the wastes in a container,  dividing said wastes into a liquid component and a slurry   component,     raising the temperature of said slurry to a temperature level above the flash temperature of said slurry, thereby producing high temperature gases.    passing said   h    temperature cases   through    said liquid component in heat exchange relationship therewith to heat and sterilize said   liquid      component,    and  transferring the heated liquid component for use to   energy;    equipment related to at least one other thermally motivated household function.  15. the process recited in claim 14 wherein the heated liquid   component    is   transferred    for use in energizing integrated enclosed space   tsrpcrature    modifications and/or for use in   energizing      water    heating equipment   an      .    an integrated sewage treatment system comprising: :  (a) first means for collecting domestic   sewage    composed  of raw human excrement and other organic and inorganic wastes  entrained in transport water;  (b) second means for liquid-phase sterilization of said  sewage;  (c) third means for regeneratively utilizing the thermal  energy contained in said sewage after sterilization to energize  at least one other thermally motivated function normally  associated with human domestic life; and  (d) fourth means for disposing of said sewage after its  thermal energy has been utilized and depleted.    an   an      integrated    sewage treatment system comprising:  (a) first means for collecting domestic sewage composed  of raw human excrement and other organic and inorganic wastes  entrained in transport water;  (b) second means for subjecting said sewage to   pressurize     liquid-phase sterilization.    (c) third means for   regeneratively    utilizing the thermal  energy contained in said sewage after sterilization to energize  space temperature modification and water heating functions  normally associated with human domestic life; and    (d)fourth means for dispersing of raid sewage after its thermal energy has been utilized and depleted.   18.an integrated system as recited in claim 13 or 17 wherein said third means energizes space-temperature modification and/or energizes water heating functions.    19.an integreated sevage treatment system comprising:  (a)   first    means for collecting domestic sewage composed of raw human excrement and other organic or inorganic wastes entrained in transport water;  (b)second means for mineralizing the organic component or   say;    sewage;  (c)third means for liquid-phase sterilisation of the effluent remaining after   line      organic      component    of said sewage has been mineralized;  (d) fourth means for regeneratively utilizing the thermal energy contained in said effluent after sterilization to energize ta least ons other thermally motivated function normally associated with human domestic life; and  (e)fifth means for disposing of said eflluent after its thermal energy has been utilized and depleted.      20. the system of claim 19 and further comprising sixth means   ror    comminuting the insoluble solids entrained in said sewage prior to its thermal sterilization.   21. the system of claim 19 wherein said fourth means energizes space temperature modification and/or water heating functions.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
