<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0007227
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800123
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
G01B-11/24 G01B-11/25 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
method and apparatus for measuring the profile of an elongate surface.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
commw scient ind res orgau<sep>commonwealth scientific and industrial research organisation<sep>commonwealth scientific and industrial research organisation 407 royal paradeparkville, vic 3052au <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
hegedus zoltan stephenau<sep>steel william howardau<sep>hegedus, zoltan stephen<sep>steel, william howard<sep>hegedus, zoltan stephen3/3 camera street, manlynew south walesau<sep>steel, william howard6 abernethy street, seaforthnew south walesau<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
surface profile measurement is carried out, in the situa­ tion where there is relative movement between the observer  and the surface, by beaming a fan-like, planar beam of light  (which term includes infra-red and ultra-violet wavelengths as  well as visible light) on to the surface at an acute angle, and  monitoring the pattern of the reflected light.  in its application  to the measurement of rail wear of railway track, the pattern of  the reflected light is compared with the pattern of light  reflected, in a similar geometrical arrangement, from an  unworn rail.  flash tubes and lasers are convenient light  sources which, with associated lens arrangements, can pro­ duce the planar light beam.  the reflected light can conve­ niently be monitored with a television camera or a diode  array.  data concerning the pattern of the reflected beam can  be stored for subsequent analysis or reference.  profiles of  white hot metal rods can be measured if the system uses an  infra-red laser beam and narrow-band filters to cut out  unwanted light and thus obtain an acceptable signal to noise  ratio when monitoring the reflected light pattern.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
mcthod and apparatus for measuring the l'rol'ile of al l.ongatc surface this invention concerns the dynamic measurement of the profiles of elongate surfaces. it will find application in situations where a profile has to be measured from a moving observatory, and where a stationary measuring location is used to investigate the shape of moving surfaces. it was developed primarily for the measurement of wear in rails of railway track, in which situation it forms a non-contact, vehicle mountable arrangement for the measurement of track head wear. however, the invention is not limited to this application. examples of other applications of the invention are in the measurement of profiles of rolled steel rods and joists in a steel rolling mill and in the measurement of the profile of the wheel rims of railway rolling stock (which, it will be understood, are curved elongate surfaces). in view of the origin of this invention, now reported in the march 1979 issue (no. 133) of $'industrial research news" (a publication of the commonwealth scientific al:d industrial research organization, of which the present inventors are officers), the invention will be particularly exemplified in this specification in its application to the measurement of rail wear in rails of railway track. measurement of track condition is a cons1:ant requirement in the operation of a railway and most track parameters can now be measured at speed using appropriately instrumented coaches, such as the high speed track recording coach described by r.b. lewis of the british railways rescarch and development division in his recent paper in the "permanent way institution journal" (1976) entitled "recording track geometry at speed. another arrangement for measuring track parameters at speed is featured in u.s. patent specification no. 4,005,601, which describes how certain types of track discontinuity, namely rail end mismatch, rail separation and rail-end batter, may be monitored. high speed profile and guage measuring apparatus is described in the specification of u.s. patent no. 3,517,307. another profiling technique is described in u.s. patent specification no. 3,924,461. however, none of these references comments on one major problem with rails, namely rail head wear. this is because rail head wear has yet to be adequately monitored by vehicle-mounted instruments. rail head wear occurs primarily on curves of railway track. it is the distortion of the head of the rail due to forces exerted on the rail by vehicle wheels. it is particularly a problem when heavy loads are carried on the track. it is well known on the tracks which carry the iron ore trains in the north of western australia. the failure to develop an instrument to measure head wear per or to the present invention is surprising, for when excessive rail head wear occures, it is normal procedure to replace the entire worn rail section. its detection is such a problem that in track management, expensive preventative maintenance is undertaken (based on experience gained with manual inspections but =allowing an adequate,safety factor), whereby a section of rail is replaced after a set period
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
   claims:-      1. a method for measuring of the profile of an elongate surface comprising the steps of:  (a) projecting a thin planar beam of light (as  hereinbefore defined) on to the surface at an  acute angle relative to the lengthwise direction  of the surface,  (b) locating a light processing means in the path of  the light reflected from the surface, and  (c) observing the   pattern    of the light reflected from  the surface which is received by the light  processing means.   2. a method as defined in claim 1, including the step of comparing the light pattern received by the light processing means and the light pattern that would be receives by the light processing means if the surface had the shape of a preselected reference surface.   3. a method as defined in claim 2,   in which      ule      comparison    is effected by noting the differences between the received light pattern and the pattern representative of the reference surface.   4. apparatus for measuring the profile of an elongate  surface comprising a source of light, apparatus forming  light from the source into a planar beam and projecting the beam on to the surface at an acute angle relative to the   lengthwise    direction of'to the surface, and means responsive  to light located in the path of light which is reflected from the surface, said means responsive to light enabling the pattern of the received reflected light to be determined.   5. apparatus as defined in claim 4, in which the source of light is a flash tube or a laser and the beam forming and projecting apparatus is a system of lenses.   6. apparatus as defined in claim 4 or claim 5, in which the   me as    responsive to reflected light is a television camera or a diode array.   7. apparatus as defined in claim 6, including recording means to store information obtained by the television camera or diode array.   8. apparatus as defined in any one of claims 4 to 7, including means to compare the pattern received by said means responsive to reflected light with a predetermined pattern.   9. apparatus as defined in claim 8, in which the elongate   surface    is   lile    surface of a rail   l    a railway   track      1°    predetermined pattern is the pattern of light reflected in a similar geometrical arrangement from an unworn rail, the apparatus is mounted on a track vehicle, and the apparatus includes means to mark the ground adjacent to the track to indicate   the    degree of wear of the head of the rail of railway track.    10. apparatus as defined in claim 4, in which the surface is a hot metal surface in a rolling mill, the source of  light is an infra-red laser, and the means responsive to reflected light is a diode array.   11. a method of measuring the profile -of an elongate surface, substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to the accompanying drawings.   12. apparatus for measuring the profile of an elongate surface, substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to the accompanying drawings.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
