<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0015328
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800917
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
A61L-2/00 A61L-2/06 A61L-2/24 <main>A61L-2/24</main> 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
method and apparatus for steam sterilization.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
american sterilizer co<sep>american sterilizer company<sep>american sterilizer company2424 west 23rd streeterie, pennsylvania 16512us  <sep>american sterilizer company <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
halleck frank e<sep>young jack h<sep>halleck, frank e.<sep>young, jack, h.<sep>halleck, frank e.820 elizabeth laneerie pennsylvania, 16505us<sep>young, jack, h.r.d.3cambridge springs pennsylvania 16403us<sep>halleck, frank e. <sep>young, jack, h.  <sep>halleck, frank e.820 elizabeth laneerie pennsylvania, 16505us<sep>young, jack, h.r.d.3cambridge springs pennsylvania 16403us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
in methods and apparatus for steam sterilization,  goods are conditioned in a sterilizing chamber (16) by re­ moving air and heating to a desired temperature.  pressure  change in the chamber is monitored and employed to con­ trol conditioning.  the goods are subjected to a plurality of  controlled cyclic pressure pulses below a predetermined  super-atmospheric pressure level by alternate evacuation  and steam pressurization of the chamber.  the cyclic pres­ sure pulsing is made responsive to load characteristics  which are determined by monitoring pressure change in  the chamber (16) by means of a pressure sensing assem­ bly (66).  in a specific embodiment, air is flushed from the  chamber (16) initially by the injection of steam via a valve  (45) from a jacket (22) simultaneously with evacuation of  the chamber (16) by means of a water ejection (48).  the  evacuation phase of each pulse continues until both a pre­ determined time has lapsed and a predetermined vacuum  level has been attained; and the steam pressurization phase  of each pulse is continued until a fixed pressure related to  sterilization temperature is reached.  thereafter steam is  admitted to the chamber (16) and steam pressure is main­ tained therein until the sterilization has been completed.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
description methods and apparatus fox m steam sterilization" this invention is concerned with steam sterilizing methods and apparatus. steam sterilization requires steam contact with every portion of the load to be sterilized (see principles and methods of sterilization in health sciences", john 3. perkins, 2nd edition, third printing, published by charles c. thomas, springfield, illinois, pages 110 to 114). therefore proper cdndi- tioning of loads which include fabrics requires substantially complete removal of air from the interstices of the fabric in order to eliminate any air pockets and thus provide for heating the load throughout its volume. conditioning non-hermetically-sealed loads in prior steam sterilization practice has generally relied on high pre-vacuum treatment of steam pulsing. the high pre-vacuum treatment method relies on drawing a deep vacuum, to as low as a few millimetres of mercury in the load and the sterilizing chamber, in an attempt to substantially completely remove air from the load before the introduction of steam. this approach is costly, both in equipment and operation, since highpowered vacuum sum?ing apparatus is required and the entire system must have high vacuum integrity. also, substantial time can be required to reach the high vacuum levels employed. especially witu fabric-type loads. various steam pulsing methods have been taught (principles and nethods of sterilization in health sciences", sunra, pages 150-152; u.s.a. patent no. 3,409,389; and u.s.a. patent no. 3,494,725), including steam pulsing above atmospheric pressure, steam pulsing below atmospheric pressure, and a combination of pulsing above and below atmospheric pressure. as set forth in "principles and methods of sterilization in health sciences", supra, at page 151: "the time required to heat the load to sterilizing temperature with a pulsing system depends upon the number of pulses and the time expended for each pulse. the effectiveness of a pulse, and therefore the number of pulses required, is in turn dependent upon the amplitude or excursion of the pulse and the ratio of the maximal and minimal absolute pressures of each pulse. the time expended by a pulse is a function of the rate of ae- livery and expulsion of steam and of the maxi mal and minimal pulsing pressures related to atmospheric pressure." in the past, the conditioning portion of a steam cycle has been based on requirements to heat the most difficult load to be encountered in a particular sterilizer. in practice that sterilizer was then pre-set to carry out the conditioning cycle for the most difficult to heat load regardless of the actual characteristics or size of the load to be sterilized. in the stem pulsing method, a timer control or a pressure control functioned in a fixed manner, based on a fixed time or a fixed pressure excursion of the pulses. sch an approach can be inefficient when using fixed tine cycles to sterilize partial loads cr loads containing minimal fabric and when using fixed pressure cycles to sterilize full loads. alter- natives to a cycle based on the most difficult to heat load include operator prejudgement of loads and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims    1. a method of steam sterilizing materials within a sealed sterilizing chamber in which a random load of such materials is loaded into the chamber and the load is conditioned prior to steam sterilization in that air is removed from the load and the load is heated to a desired temperature related to the sterilizing temperature by subjecting the chamber to a plurality of cyclic pressure pulses in each of which pressure is reduced during an evacuating phase and pressure is subsequently increased by introducing a vapour into the chamber during a vapour injecting phase, characterized in that the change of chamber pressure in relation to time lapse is measured during at least a portion of the evacuating phase, the measured change serving as an indication of chamber evacuation rate during the evacuating phase,  and in that the indicated chamber evacuation rate automatically controls the termination of that evacuation phase and initiates the succeeding cyclic pressure pulse pressurization phase.    2. a method according to claim 1 characterised in that at each of the evacuation phases is automatically terminated by automatically controlling the chamber evacuation pressure level.    3.   a    method according to claim 1 characterised in that each of the evacuation phases is   auwomatically    terminated by automatically controlling the chamber evacuation time.      4. a method according to claim 1, 2 or 3 characterised in that the range of pressure of the cyclic pressure pulses extends above and below atmospheric pressure.    5. a method according to claim 4 characterised in that the evacuation phase of each cyclic pressure pulse is continued until both a minimum vacuum level and minimum time duration are reached.    6. a method according to' any preceding claim further characterised by selecting the number of cyclic pulses to control the conditioning of the load.    7. a method according to any preceding claim characterised in that the vapour introduced into the sterilizing chamber during the conditioning comprises steam.    8. a method according to any preceding claim characterised in that the load conditioning is initiated prior to the cyclic pressure pulses by purging air from the chamber by introducing the vapour into the chamber while simultaneously evacuating such vapour and air from the chamber.    9. a method as claimed in claims 7 and 8 characterised in that the air is purged from the chamber by introducing steam into the chamber at a rate to initially produce a substantial pressure increase in the chamber while simultaneously evacuating the chamber.    10. a method as claimed in claim 9 characterised in that steam is introduced into the chamber and the chamber is evacuated at rates to produce initially a rapid increase in chamber pressure followed by a substantial   reaction    in the rate of chamber   press-ari-    zation and in that the change in the rate of chamber pressurization is sensed and the introduction of steam is terminated in response to the sensed reduction in rate of chamber pressurization.    11. a method as claimed in claim   9    characterised  in that steam is introduced into the chamber and the chamber is evacuated at rates to produce initially a substantial increase in chamber pressure followed by a gradual reduction in chamber pressure, and in that the reduction in chamber pressure is sensed and the introduction of steam is terminated in response to the sensed pressure reduction.    12. a method   according    to any preceding claim characterised in that the pressure in the chamber is reduced during the   evactuating    phase by applying to the sterilizing chamber a vacuum by ejector means.    13.   a    method according to any preceding claim characterised in that the load conditioning comprises at least four cyclic pressure pulses.    14. sterilizing apparatus for steam sterilizing a random load of materials, the apparatus having a sealable sterilizing chamber capable of operation at pressure above atmospheric and being provided with evacuation means operable to evacuate the sterilizing chamber, vapour injection means operable to introduce a vapour into the sterilizing chamber, and a control device for controlling operation of the evacuation means and the vapour injection means during conditioning of the load prior to sterilization to provide a plurality of cyclic pulses of chamber pressure below an upper pressure level related to desired temperature for sterilization,  each cyclic pulse including an evacuating phase during which pressure in the chamber is decreasing during operation of the evacuation means and a vapour injecting phase during which pressure within the chamber is increasing during operation of the vapour injecting means, characterised in that the control device is connected to a pressure sensing device (66) for moni   toring    chamber pressure change and includes a timing device (82) for   meats'luring    the time of the evacuation phase of   tle    cyclic pulses, and in that the control device   (70) is responsive to such indication of chamber pressure and evacuation time for   determinin: :    the rate of evacuation of the chamber and for controlling such cyclic pulsing to control load   conditioning    in response to the chamber evacuation rate.    15. apparatus according to claim   14    characterised in that the control device (70) includes pulse cycle control means   (84,38,90)    for controlling such cyclic pulsing responsive to such indication of chamber pressure and evacuation time, whereby to continue each evacuation phase until both a predetermined time has lapsed and a predetermined vacuum level is reached in the sterilizing chamber.    16. apparatus according to claim 14 or 15 characterised in that the control device (70) includes means (80) for initiating load conditioning by introducing steam into the   chamber    while   similtane-    ously evacuating the chamber to flush air from the chamber.     17. apparatus   accordion;    to any of claims 14 to 16 characterised in that the vapour injector means (44) has a first electrically operated valve (45) to respectively   prsssurize    the chamber (16) and stop the flow of steal into the chamber, and in that the evacuating means includes a suction device (48) and a second electrically operated valve (54) to respectively connect the chamber (16) to the suction device to evacuate the chamber and disconnect the chamber to stop the evacuation.    18. apparatus according to any of claims 14 to 17 characterised in that   te    control device (70) includes   countir      means    (72) operable to terminate the cyclic pressure pulsing after a   peedeterminea number    of such pulses.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
