<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0017463
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19801015
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<main>B01D-53/22</main> C01B-3/00 B01D-53/22 C01B-3/50 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
gas recovery process.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
monsanto cous<sep>monsanto company<sep>monsanto company800 north lindbergh boulevardst. louis missouri 63167us<sep>monsanto company<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
bollinger wayne allen<sep>bollinger, wayne allen<sep>bollinger, wayne allen1203 balmoral drivecary north carolina 27511us<sep>bollinger, wayne allen<sep>bollinger, wayne allen1203 balmoral drivecary north carolina 27511us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
there is provided a process for recovering a gas from a  feed gas mixture subject to wide variation in flow rate of at  least 1. 8 times the minimum positive flow rate comprising  contacting the feed gas mixture with a membrane selectively  permeable to said gas at a membrane number, as defined, of  at least 0. 5 and at a partial pressure differential for said gas  sufficient to provide a driving force for permeation of said  gas and recovering from said membrane a permeated gas  mixture more concentrated in said gas and having a  percentage variation in flow rate of no more than about 0. 6 of  the percentage variation in flow rate of the feed gas mixture.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
gas recovery prd szckground of the invention this invention relates to a process for the separation and recovery of gases frcm mixtures of gases, and particularly relates to such a separation and recovery process from gas mixtures subject widely varying flow rates. a variety of processes and means have been developed and employed for the separation and recovery of one or more gases such as oxygen, nitrogen, helium, carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide; hydrogen sulfide and..hydrogen from mixtures thereof with one or more others of those gases or other gases such as the alkanes, methane, ethane and the like. many gas mixture streams from which -recovery is desired are subject to wide variations in flow rate. these variations are frequently due to the type of control and operation of the processes from which the gas mixtures are derived. for instance, processes involving hydrogen-containing gas mixtures are among the most common. in hydrogen using processes, such as hydrogenations, there is frequently derived a purge or vent gas containing a relatively high content of unreacted hydrogen. this high hydrogen content is usually due to the requirement for a high partial pressure of hydrogen for efficient hydrogenation. economical recovery and recycle of this purged hydrogen is parti cularly attractive. such recovery is made difficult, however, by the variations in flow rate of the purge gas. this can be induced by control features directed toward optimizing the reaction to produce the hydrogenated product, such as maintaining a minimum hydrogen pressure or a minimum hydrogen content in the hydrogenation reaction zone. such control features often result ir short term rapid increases or severe clnrtail- ments or total termination of purge, gas flow. sometimes such curtailti-ents are accompanied by changes in pressure of the purge gas varying by as much as 10 to 157, from the usual pressure. the more usual result is severe drops or increases in the flow rate of the purge gas. this is frequently the case when the method of control utilized is to crease or dedrease the flow of the reactant being hydrogenated to the hydrogenation reaction zone causing the hydrogen pressure or hydrogen content to trigger such control feature. the lag time in changing the flows of reactants for such control purposes is frequently substantial and results in the wide variations. similarly, in hydrogen-generating processes, such as reforming of hydrocarbons to produce gas mixtures containing hydrogen, there 'are 'also many sources or variations in the flow rate. these may include changes in catalyst activity and more 'sudden up sets such as plugging or removal from service of part of the tubes of a tubular refining reactor and malfunctions in the carbon dioxide removal and/or methanation reaction system which are normally employed in such hydrogen-generating processes. i.en tó such processes are employed in series, such as when 2 hydrogen-generating process supplies a hydrogenation process, the effects of any variations in the hydrogen flow rate are multiplied and cumulative in their effect on the purge gas from. the hydrogenation process to which tbe
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
it is claimed:  1. a process for   recovering    a gas from a gas mixture comprising contacting said gas mixture with one surface of a membrane selectively permeable'to the said gas wherein the flow rate of the said gas   mixture    varies over a total range of at least   l*8x    the minimum measured positive flow rate, at a positive partial pressure differential for said gas and at a   membrane 'number'    of at least .5, said   memb,rane 'number    consisting of   the    quotient determined by the formula emi31.1       wherein qf is the flow rate'of said, gas mixture,' a is the permeation surface area of said membrane,  ap is the differential in   pressure    between said gas mixture and the permeated gas mixture and   p/&alpha;    gas is the permeability to said gas of said membrane, and recovering from   the    opposite surface of said   membrane a    permeated gas mixture more concentrated in said gas at a   flow    rate 'having a percentage variation no more than   0.6 'of    the percentage variation in the flow rate of the said gas mixture.    .2. a process   for    recovering   a gas      from a    gas   mixture    comprising contacting said gas mixture   with    one surface of a membrane selectively   permeable    to the said gas wherein the flow rate of said gas mixture varies over a total range of at least 1,8x the   minimum    measured   positive    flow rate, at a positive partial pressure differential for said gas and a membrane   number    of at least 5, said membrane   number    consisting of   the    quotient determined by the formula emi31.2       wherein qf is the flow rate of said gas mixture,  a is thepermeation surface are3 of   said memb"r'ane,      tp    is   'the     differential in pressure'between seid gas mixture and the permeated gas mixture and   p/&alpha;    gas is the permeability to said gas of said membrane, and recovering   from    the opposite surface of seid membrane a permeated gas muxture more concentrated in said gas at a flow rate varying no more than 25 percent from 0.8 of maximum potential flow rate of the permeated gas mixture,' said maximum potential flow rate of the permeated gas   mixture      et'ened    by   fle    formula emi32.1         wherein      p/&alpha; ;    gas ,and a are as above,   pf    and pp are the respective pressures of said gas mixture and said permeated    gas mixture 'and xf @@@ and xp gas are the respective mole fractions of said gas in said gas mixture and said permeated    gas mixture.'     3. a process of claim 1 whwerein the flow rate of tacted said coh/ gas mixture varies over a total range of from    about   1,8x    to 5x   the      minimum    measured   positive    flow rate.    4. a process of claim 1 wherein said membrane number is   from    5 to   5.0.    emi32.2          5. a process of claim 1 wherein said positive partial   pres'sure    differential for said, gas is at least about 3 atmospheres.      - 6.    a   process    of claim 1 wherein said membrane has a separation factor   of    at least five for said gas in preference to at least one other gas in gaid gas mixture.        7    a 'process of claim 1   wfierein    said permeated gas mixture comprises at least 80 mole percent of said gas.    8. a   process      for    recovering   hydrogen    from a gas mixture comprising contacting said gas mixture containing hydrogen with one surface of a membrane selectively permeable to hydrogen wherein the flow rate of the said gas mixture varies over a total range of at least   1 8x      the      minimum    measured   positive    flow rate at a positive   partial    pressure 'differential for hydrogen and at a membrane number of at least   .5,    said membrane number consisting of the quotient   det'ermined    by   tele 'formula    emi33.1         wherein    of is the   'flow    rate-'of said gas mixture,  a is the permeation area of said   membrane, # p    is the differential in pressure   between    said gas mixture 'and the   permeated    gas mixture and   p/&alpha;    h2 is the permeability to hydrogen of said membrane, and recovering from the opposite surface of said membrane a permeated gas mixture   more concentrated    in   hydrogen    at a   flow    rate   'having    a percentage   variation,    no more   than    0.6 of the percentage   variation    in the' flow rate'of   the'    said gas mixture,'  9. a process for recovering rydrogen from a gas mixture 'comprising contacting said gas   mixture    containing hydrogen with one surface of a membrane selectively permeable to hydrogen wherein the flow rate of the said gas mixture varies over a total range of at   yeast    1.8x the minimum measured positive flow rate, at a positive  partial pressure differential for hydrogen and at a membrane number of at least .5, said membrane number consisting of the quotient determined by the formula emi34.1       wherein qf is the flow rate of   said,    gas mixture,  a is the permeation area of said membrane,'   ap    is th2   differential    in pressure between said gas mixture 'and a permeated gas mixture and   p/q    h is the permeability to hydrogen of said membrane,   ans    recovering from the opposite surface of said membrane a permeated gas mixture more concentrated in hydrogen at a flow rate varying no more   than    25 percent from .8 of maximum potential flow rate of   the    permeated gas mixture,   said maximum potential flow rate of the permeated gas mixture 'determined by the formula emi34.2         whexe'n      p/qh    and a are as above,' pf and pp are the    2    respective pressures of said gas mixture and   saiz      permeated,    gas mixture and xfh and xph2 are the respective mole fractions of hydrogeri in said gas mixture and said permeated, gas   mixture.       .10. a process of claim 8   wherein    the flow rate of said con/   gas ma xture    varies over a total range of from 1.8x to 5x the minimum measured positive flow rate.      11. a process of claim 8 wherein sid @ membrane     number is from   .5    to   3.3,     12. a process of claim 8   wherein      sid    positive  partial pressure differential for hydrogen is s at least 3 atmospheres.    13.   p;    process of claim 8   wherein      said    permeated  gas   mixture    comprises at least 80 mole percent hydrogen.    14. a   process    of claim 8 wherein said membrane  has   2    separation factor of at least five for  hydrogen in preference to at least one   other    gas in said  g2s   mixture.       15. a process of claim 9 wherein the flow rate  of   said    permeated gas mixture varies no more than 20    percen-    from .8 of the maximum potential   flo;    rate of  the permeated gas mixture.     16. a process of claim 8   or    claim 9 wherein said  contacted gas mixture is a hydrogen-containing purge gas    remove    from a recycled effluent gas from hydrogenation  of an organic compound.    17. a process of claim 16 wherein said permeated  gas mixture comprises at least 90 mo'le percent hydrogen.    18. a process of claim 16 wherein said permeated  gas mixture is recycled to-said hydrogenation.    19. a process of claim 16 wherein said permeated  gas mixture is rejoined with the remainder of said  recycled effluent gas.    20. a process of claim 16 wherein said organic  compound comprises adiponitrile.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
