<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0009855
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800416
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
G09F-19/22 F21V-21/38 F21V-21/36 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
method and device for hoisting and suspending high level cantilevered structures.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
borland james<sep>borland, james<sep>borland, james8 penshurst roadpotters bar hertfordshire en6 5jpgb<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
borland james<sep>borland, james<sep>borland, james8 penshurst roadpotters bar hertfordshire en6 5jpgb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
methods of hoisting and suspending high level cantile足 vered structures (14) such as frames boards and boxes par足 ticularly at inaccessible heights on a wall mounted support  arm (5) which is brought into position through a bore (2) in  the wall by means of a resiliently flexible tapered rod erec足 tion tool (1) projected through the bore from the vantage  point inside the building and onto the end of which the sup足 port arm (5) is hoisted and sleeved over for manipulation  through the wall.  the structure (14) is then hoisted and suspended on the  support arm (5) either free hanging on the cantilever, or  against the wall by using two secondary cables emerging  from an orifice underneath at the backing plate (20) with the  wall.  the support arm (5) cantilever is curved downward to  reduce slip drag on the cables and the vertically downward  pointing orifice (8) is flaired to afford unobstructed passage  to cable joints and for locating purposes.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
methods of hoisting and suspending high level cantilevered structures. this invention relates to methods of hoisting and suspending cantilevered structures at a high level on the wall surfaces of buildings. the invention is particularly applicable to the erection at a high level on the walls of buildings of attack resistant enclosures, containing for example, surveillance cameras, alarm signalling equipment, security lighting and the like. it also applies to display signs, advertising hoardings and almost anything which requires to be mounted on a vertical wall surface at a high level. when erecting and servicing cantilevered structures at a high level it is usually necessary to use ladders, cranes, scaffolding and the like. this conventional equipment is expensive, can be obstructive and also dangerous to the personnel involved. the present invention seeks to provide a method of hoisting and suspending high level cantilevered structures which will remove the need for conventional kinds of equipment whilst still providing a safe and practical system which allows for subsequent removal for service or replacement of the structure and its contents. in its broadest aspect, the invention envisages the use of a hoisting line passing through a long resiliently flexible hollow tapered rod which is projected through a bore in the wall at the height which it is desired to anchor the cantilevered structure which could be at some convenient floor level of the building. the rod is so positioned that means to reel in and reel out the hoisting line are on the inside of the wall at one end of the rod, and the other end projects outwardly as a resiliently flexible cantilever from the outside. the arrangement generally resembles a fishing rod and line complete with reel. the hoisting line is extended to the ground and attached to a tubular support arm which is then hoisted until it sleeves over the curved cantilever of the resiliently flexible arm so being brought into suitable attitude for manipulation through the wall, to be secured in position. the rod and line is then removed and a winch line is passed through the support arm and extended to the ground or any accessible level where it is attached to the structure which is to be hoisted and suspended on the support arm. when hoisting of the structure is complete, it is held by clamping its suspension cables securely on the inside of the wall. methods of hoisting and suspending high level cantilevered structures, all of which embody the invention are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. these methods will now be described by way of example and with reference to the drawings in which:- figures 1 to 4 show successive stages in the erection of the support arm. figures 4 to 7 show methods of hoisting and suspending two types of structures. figure 8 shows a heavy duty support arm with accessories. figure 9 shows an attack resistant enclosure suspended on an attack resistant support arm for security applications. in figure 1, an erecting tool comprising a long
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:   1. methods of hoisting and suspending high level cantilevered structures on the wall surfaces of buildings characterized by a support arm (5) which is hoisted and manipulated into position through a bore in the wall (2) by means of an erection tool(l) projected through the bore. the support arm is the means on which the structure (12) is hoisted and suspended, either free hanging on the outwardly protruding end of it or by three point linkage which holds the structure (12) against the wall.   2. an erection tool as claimed in claim 1 comprising a resiliently flexible rod (1) which is hollow and tapered to its projecting end and through which a hoisting line passes from a winding reel (4) at its base and onto the tapered end of which the support arm (5) can be sleeved.   3. a support arm (5) as claimed in claim 1 which is tubular and extends through the wall when in use where it is clamped in position, and that part protruding outward from the backing plate (20) with the wall to form a cantilever, is curved or inclined downward to a vertically downward pointing flaired orifice (8). there is also an orifice or twin orifices (19) on its underside at the backing plate (20).   4. a vertically downward pointing flaired orifice as claimed in claim 3 which affords unobstructed passage  to the coupling yoke (13) which connects the hoisting cable (10) to the suspension cable (11) of the structure (12) and for locating auxilliary parts such as the tubular extension (7).   5. a coupling yoke as claimed in claim 4 which consists of a number, dependent on strength required, of miniature screw clamps, each one coupling a strand on one cable to a strand on the other and arranged in sequence so that one joint follows the other.   6. a support arm as claimed in claim 3 which is reinforced with twin cantilever beams (23) and onto the end of which a hook coupling (24) can be linked by ratchet action.   7. a support arm as claimed in claim 3 in   which the    cantilevered part in inclined downward in use and has three delta shaped fins (27) along its length and radially equidistant to each other. the depth of the fins increases along its length outwards.    8. a delta finned support arm as claimed in claim 7 onto which a cubiform enclosure (14) is hoisted and freely suspended by one of its corners. it comprises a visor (28) consisting of three laminated glass plates or the like at right angles to each other which are so arranged that when impact is applied to any one, it is supported in position by the other two.   9. a cubiform enclosure as claimed in claim 8 inside which the contents are resiliently suspended on the same suspension cable.   10. a visor as claimed in claim 8 which is surrounded by a ring of thin stiff rods (29) which project outward and converge at an effective distance in front of the visor.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
