<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0003083
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19790725
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
C07C-179/10 C07C-407/00 C07C-67/00 C07C-409/24 C07C-409/26 C07C-409/00 <main>B01D-11/04</main> B01D-11/04 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
liquid-liquid extraction.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
propylox sa be<sep>propylox (societe anonyme)<sep>propylox (société anonyme)12, avenue de la renaissanceb-1040 bruxellesbe<sep>propylox (societe anonyme) <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
hildon anthony macdonald<sep>hildon, anthony macdonald<sep>hildon, anthony macdonald38 greenlandstattenhall, cheshiregb<sep>hildon, anthony macdonald <sep>hildon, anthony macdonald38 greenlandstattenhall, cheshiregb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
the invention provides a process and apparatus for  liquid-liquid extraction in which a first liquid phase is passed  continuously through a series of extraction stages (10) whilst  a second liquid phase is passed continuously through the  series in counter-current to the first phase.  in each stage the  second phase is dispersed as by a sieve plate (11) and then  allowed to coalesce into a settled body (14) from which the  second phase is withdrawn and passed to the next adjacent  stage.  the invention is characterised by the fact that the  flows of the two phases in each stage are generally  transverse to each other.  preferably the first phase flows  through the series of stages under gravity whilst the second  phase is pumped (16) from stage to stage to control its  inter-stage transfer.  the invention combines the features of separate control  of residence time characteristics of an extraction column  with the safety aspects inherent in a mixer/settler battery.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
background of the invention the present invention relates to a process and apparatus for contacting two immiscible liquid phases, for example in the organic extraction of an aqueous phase. the invention has particular, but not exclusive, relevance to, and will be described with respect to, the preparation of peracids (by which we mean herein pero#;carboxylic acids). the use of such peracids is well known in the epoxldation of alkenes, especially lower alkenes. those skilled in the art of liquid-liquid extraction will readily understand what other processes the present invention can be applied to. description of the prior art the general techniques of extraction of a substance from a first liquid phase with a second and immiscible liquid phase are ell known. normally such extraction is carried out using counter-current techniques. the two main classes of apparatus used are known as "extraction columns" and ".mixer-settlers". one advantage of extraction columns is that different residence times can be used for the two phases but one disadvantage is that imperfect contacting of the two phases ma; occur due chiefly to non-uniform flow of the phases, particularly in large columns. one advantage of mixer-settlers is that efficient contacting is ensured. however in conventional mixer-settlers operating under steady state conditions, the residence times of the two phases are normally the same regardless of the relative rates of flow of the two phases, unless special recycling stages are provided. an alternative technique is called cross-current extraction and is described in "liquid-liquid extraction" by l. alders 2nd ed. 1959, published by elsevier publishing company. however for the reasons stated therein on page 66 this has severe defects and is described in "chemical engineers handbook by robert h. perry 5th ed. published by mcgraw-hill book company at page 15-15 under the more appropriate name of "simple multistage contact". summary of the invention it is an object of the present invention to provide a process and apparatus for liquid-liquid extraction. according to the present invention, there is provided a process for licuid-liquid extraction, comprising passing a first liquid phase continuously through a series of extraction stages, passing a second liquid phase continuously through said series in counter-current to the first phase and, in each said stage, effecting dispersal of the second phase in the first phase and allowing coalescence and separation of the second phase into a settled body from which the second phase is withdrawn and passed under control to the next adjacent stage as aforesaid, characterised in that the flows of the two phases in each stage are generally transverse to each other. according to a further aspect of the present invention, there is provided a liquid-liquid extraction apparatus comprising a plurality of vessels arranged in a series, means to introduce a first liquid phase into the first vessel of the series and to cause or permit it to flow through the series, means to withdraw the first phase from the last vessel of the series, means to introduce a second liquid phase into said last vessel,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims   1. a process for   liquid-liquid    extraction, comprising  passing a first liquid phase continuously through a  series of extraction stages, passing a second liquid  phase continuously through said series in counter  current to the first phase and, in each said stage,  effecting dispersal of the second phase in the first  phase and allowing coalescence and separation of the  second phase into a settled body from which the second  phase is withdrawn and passed under control to the next  adjacent stage as aforesaid, characterised in that the  flows of the two phases in each stage are generally  transverse to each other.   2. a process according to claim 1, wherein a single  dispersal and coalescence is effected in each stage.   3. a process according to claims 1 or 2, wherein the first  liquid phase flows substantially horizontally throughout  the series of stages and the second liquid phase flows  substantially vertically in each stage, being passed  from stage to stage under control.   4. a process according to any of claims 1 to 3 and for the  extraction of a peracid, wherein the first liquid phase  comprises an aqueous solution of the peracid and the  second liquid phase comprises an organic solvent for  the peracid, thereby to produce an organic solution of  the peracid.   5. a process according to any of claims 1 to 3 and for the  production of a peracid, wherein the first liquid phase  comprises an aqueous solution of hydrogen peroxide and  the second liquid phase comprises a solution of a car  boxylic acid in an organic solvent, whereby the peracid  is generated by reaction in the aqueous phase between the  carboxylic acid and hydrogen peroxide and is extracted  into the organic solvent.     6. a process according to any of the preceding   claims,     wherein the first liquid phase flows through the  series of stages under gravity.   7. liquid-liquid extraction apparatus comprising a plurality  of vessels arranged in a series, means to introduce a  first liquid phase into the first vessel of the series  and to cause or permit it to flow through the series,  means to   withdraw    the first phase from the last vessel  of the series, means to introduce a second liquid phase  into said last vessel,means to   withdraw    the second  phase from the first vessel of the series,  dispersing  means for said second phase in   each    of the vessels  adapted to effect dispersal of the second phase through  out the first phase in each essel,   e    space in each  vessel permitting coalescence of said second phase,  means for collecting such settled second phase and  means for permitting or causing transfer of such  collected second phase to the next adjacent vessel in  the series for introduction thereinto, characterised  in that the flows of the two phases in each stage are  generally transverse to each other.   8. apparatus according to claim 7, wherein each vessel has  a single dispersing means.   9. apparatus according to claim 8 or 9, wherein the first liquid  phase flows substantially horizontally throughout the  vessels of the series and the second liquid phase flows    substantlll      vertically    in each stage, being transferred  from stage to stage under control.   10. apparatus according to claim 9 and for use where the  first liquid phase is an aqueous. phase and the second    liquid    phase is an organic phase lighter than the  aqueous phase,   wherein    the dispersing means are located  adjacent the base of each vessel.     11. apparatus according to claims 9 or 10, wherein the  arrangement is such that the first liquid phase flows  through the series of vessels under gravity.   12. apparatus according to any of claims 7 to 11, wherein  each vessel includes a weir to control the level of  liquid therein.   13. apparatus according to any of claims 7 to 12, wherein  the means to pass the second phase from vessel to  vessel comprise pump means.   14. apparatus according to claim 13, wherein a gas lift  pump is provided for each vessel to vessel transfer.   15. apparatus according to any of claims 7 to 14, wherein  cooling means are provided in each vessel together with  agitation means to cause a forced flow of liquid over  the cooling means under shut-down conditions.    16. apparatus according to claims 14 and 15, wherein the  agitation means use gas diverted from the gas lift pumps.   17. apparatus according to any of claims 7 to 16, wherein  dumping means are provided adjacent to the base of at  least some of the vessels.   18. apparatus according to any of claims 7 to 17, in the  form of a generally rectangular tank having substantially  vertical inner partitions defining the said vessels.   19. apparatus according to any of claims 7 to 18, wherein  the vessels are substantially open at their tops,  whereby they are freely vented.   20. apparatus according to any of claims 7 to 19, wherein  the dispersing means is a static sieve plate and the  dispersed second phase flows substantially vertically  from the dispersing means to the space where it  coalesces.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
