<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0005039
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19791031
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B65H-39/11 <main>B65H-31/24</main> B65H-29/60 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
paper sheet deflecting system for sorter mechanism.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
holliday david hus<sep>ordibel incus<sep>holliday, david h.<sep>ordibel, inc.<sep>holliday, david h. 15521-15th neseattle washington 98155us <sep>ordibel, inc. 90 park avenuenew york n.y. 10016us<sep>holliday, david h.<sep>ordibel, inc. <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
greene ronald w<sep>holliday david h<sep>greene, ronald w.<sep>holliday, david h.<sep>greene, ronald w.3116 south 133rd st.seattle washington 98168us<sep>holliday, david h.15521-15th n.e.seattle washington 98155us<sep>greene, ronald w.<sep>holliday, david h.  <sep>greene, ronald w.3116 south 133rd st.seattle washington 98168us<sep>holliday, david h.15521-15th n.e.seattle washington 98155us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
paper sheet deflecting system for a continuous paper  sorting machine having a receiver 14 which is comprised of  at least two columns of inclined side-by-side stacks of paper  storage bins 15 with entrances for receiving paper sheets  from a reversible feeder conveyor 28.  the receiver 14 is  mounted on track means 16 for lateral movement relative to  its feeder mechanism 10, such that the bin entrances move  past the feeder 10 and present a particular bin address to a  particular deflector and deflector guide position.  the paper  sheets can be deflected off the feeder conveyor 28 to a  predetermined bin address whether they are moving down  the conveyor 28, from the top or up the conveyor 28 from the  bottom.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
paper sheet deflecting system for sorter mechanism this invention relates to sheet distributing or sorting devices and more particularly to a receiver and feeder apparatus which can continuously receive and sort large numbers of multi-paged documents as copies of a page proceed from a reproducing device such as a printer or copy making machine. this application references our copending european patent application no. 79500624.8 filed on even date herewith for "continuous sorter machine" and corresponding to u.s. patent application serial no. 897,272 dated 1th april 1978. prior art paper distributors, sorters and/or collators have encountered many problems. one is that the rapid advances in copy producing machine and press machine speeds have made increased demands on sorters. in order for the maximum production capability of a printing or copy making machine to be utilized, it is necessary that the sorter have the capacity to receive the printer or copy machine output without loss of press or copy making machine time. large capacity sorting machines have been introduced to the market place but they are not continuous. for instance, in some sorters after a vertical column of trays or bins has been filled, it is necessary to stop the press and shift that filled column away from the feeder and then move an empty column into position. thus there is lost a significant amount of press or copy machine production time. additionally, time is lost if the bins have to be unloaded on line. a continuous sorter places unusual demands on both that feeder and receiver sections. the machine must continuously accept paper copies from the reproduction device aid lidlidil them in such a way as to avoid interruptions when a column of bins is filled and feeding must shift to a new column, while smaller collators or sorters are mainly iended for the office inarket as a necessary adjunct to office copying machinery, larder sorters are more intended for the high volume commercial market and for large inplant reproduction centers, commercial houses and printing departments. these higher volume paper handling installations may be turning out catalogs, maintenance manuals, instruction books, brochures, sales material and perhaps other items such as reports, bid specifications and other large quantity, muiti-page publications. those skilled in the art will appreciate the savings in labor, time and expense if the reproduction capacity of a particular printing or copying center can be sorted at a rate which is consistent with the copy making capability. among the prior art references which may be considered with respect to the features of this invention are the following: united states patent nos. 3,420,517; 3,273,882; 3,356,362; 3,848,867; 3,937,459; 3,938,801; 3,740,050; 3,944,217; and 3,963,235. the devices covered by the above patents do not disclose tulle structure of this invention emi4.1 a continuous paper sorting machine in which the receiver with tile bins is designed generally in accordance with the teachings of u. s. patent no. 3,938,801 which describes side-by-side stacks of inclined columns of paper receiving bins or shelves. the receiver is moved
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
     emi17.1       emi17.2          1. paper   sheet    transport and deflector system for a      continuous    sorter mechanism having a feeder and a receiver a predetermined number of bins, comprising:  a) a generally vertically disposed, reversible belt type feeser conveyor which selectively transports sheet of paper   either    up or down said conveyor for direction to and deflection into a predetermined bin addres in said receiver, the bins in said receiver each having an entrance opening of predetermined dimensions,  b) a series of deflector devices mounted on said conveyor   having    a front and rear extending top walls generally at right angles to each other and located behind said belts in a retracted position and which when pivoted into a paper deflect position said front and top   ails    are at approximately 450 angles to the plane of said belts,  there being one more deflector device than the number of bins in said receiver, and  c) deflector guide   iieans    disposed between the etrance opening to each bin and said deflector devices and belts such that a   paper      sleet    copy of one page traveling up   time    feeder conveyor is deflected by a first   deflector    device into contact with the undersides of a deflector guide for guiding said sheet into a given bin and such that a paper sheet copy of a second sheet traveling down the feeder conveyor is deflected into the same given bin by the deflector next   above    said first deflector device and by topside of the same deflector guide    2. the paper sheet transport and deflector system according to claim 1 and which the deflector guide for each bin opening has a horizontal section terminating in predetermined spaced relationship to the plane of the receiver bin entrances and positioned so as to be generally midway of   tha      vertical    dimension of said bin entrance opening.    3. the paper sheet transport and deflectors system according to   clain    2 and in which said deflector guide for each bin   includes    an upwardly angled leg and a downwardly   angled    leg   diverging    from said horizonal section such   tjiat    the upwardly anyled leg is in close proximity to said first deflector device and said downwardly angled leg is in close proximity to said deflector device next below when the deflector devices are pivoted to their deflect position.    4. the paper sheet transport and deflector system according to claim 1 and in   which    each deflector device is spring loaded to a normally retracted position and also connecten to an   electrical    actuator   dice    for being pivoted to its deflect position.     5. the paper sheet transport and deflector system according to claim   1    and in which said deflector guide are mounted in a hinged frame connected to said feeder.   6. the paper sheet transport and deflector system according to claim 1 and in which each of said deflector devices has cutaway sections in the front and top walls so that when a deflector is moved to its deflect position there is no interference between said deflector and the conveyor belts.   7. paper sheet transport and deflector system for a continuous sorter mechanism having a feeder and   2    receiver with a predetermined number of bins, comprising:  (a) a generally vertically disposed, reversible multiple belt type feeder conveyor which selectively transports sheets of paper either up or down said conveyor for direction to and deflection into a predetermined bin address in said receiver,  the bins in said receiver each having an entrance opening of predetermined vertical dimension,  (b) a series of deflector devices mounted on said conveyor having a front wall generally parallel with and behind said belts and a rearwardly extending top wall generally at right angles to said front wall  and also having cutaway sections in said front and top walls in alignment with said belts and further having end mounting means for limited pivotal movement of said deflector devices such that when pivoted into a paper deflect position said  front and top walls are at approximately 450 angles to the plane of said belts, there being one more deflector device than the number of bins in said receiver,  and  c) deflector guide means disposed between the entrance opening to each bin and said deflector devices and belts such that a paper sheet traveling up the feeder conveyor is deflected by a first deflector device into contact with the upper surface of a deflector guide for guiding said sheet into a given bin and such that a paper sheet travelling down the feeder conveyor is deflected into the same given bin by the deflector device next above said first deflector device and by the lower surface of the same deflector guide.   8. the paper sheet transport and deflector system according to claim 7 and in which the deflector guide for each bin opening has a horizontal section terminating in predetermined spaced relationship to the plane of the receiver bin entrances and positioned so as to be generally midway of the verticle dimension of said bin entrance opening.   9. the paper sheet transport and deflector system according to claim 8 and in which said deflector guide for each bin includes an upwardly angled leg and a  downwardly angled leg diverging from said horizontal section such that the upwardly angled leg is in close proximity to said first deflector device and said downwardly angled leg is in  close proximity to said deflector device next below when the deflcctor   devicesarepivoted    to their deflect position.     10.   the    paper sheet transport and deflector   system    according to claim 7 and in   which    each deflector device is spring loaded to a normally retracted position and also connected to an electrical actuator device for being pivoted to its deflect position.    11. the paper sheet transport and deflector system according to claim 7 and in which said deflector guides are mounted in a hinged frame connected to said feeder.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
