<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0015628
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800917
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
A01N-43/34 C07D-213/75 <main>A01N-43/40</main> A01N-43/40 A01P-3/00 C07D-213/74 C07D-213/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
use as fungicides of pyridyliminomethylbenzene derivatives and acid-addition salts thereof; pyridyliminomethylbenzene derivatives and their acid-addition salts; a process for preparing such compounds and intermediates for use in such process; and fungicidal compositions comprising such compounds.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
shell int researchnl<sep>shell internationale research maatschappij b.v.<sep>shell internationale research maatschappij b.v.carel van bylandtlaan 30nl-2596 hr den haagnl<sep>shell internationale research maatschappij b.v. <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
ten haken pieter<sep>webb shirley beatrice<sep>ten haken, pieter<sep>webb, shirley beatrice<sep>ten haken, pieterkonkelboet the street eastlingnear faversham kentgb<sep>webb, shirley beatrice17 north street ashford roadsheldwich near faversham kentgb<sep>ten haken, pieter <sep>webb, shirley beatrice  <sep>ten haken, pieterkonkelboet the street eastlingnear faversham kentgb<sep>webb, shirley beatrice17 north street ashford roadsheldwich near faversham kentgb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
this invention provides pyridyliminomethylbenzene  derivatives and acid-addition salts thereof, said derivatives  being compounds of general formula:    wherein x is hydrogen, cyano, ethynyl, optionally-substitut­ ed alkyl, optionally-substituted alkoxy, cycloalkyl, alkenyl­ oxy, alkynyloxy, haloaryloxy, alkoxyaryloxy, aralkyloxy, ha­ loaralkyloxy, alkoxyaralkyloxy, optionally-substituted alkyl­ thio, cycloalkylthio, alkenylthio, alkynylthio, arylthio, halo­ arylthio, alkoxyarylthio, aralkylthio, or a group of formula:    wherein r¹ and r² are independently selected from hydrogen  and optionally-substituted alkyl, or r¹ and r² together  with the interjacent nitrogen atom from a heterocyclic ring  of from 5 to 7 ring atoms, one of which ring atoms may be  a further heteroatom selected from nitrogen, oxygen and  sulphur   m is 0, 1 or 2;   y is hydrogen or alkyl, haloalkyl, alkoxy, haloalkoxy,  halo, nitro, aryloxy, haloaryloxy, cyano or alkoxycarbonyl;   n is 0, 1 or 2; and   z is an alkyl, alkoxy or halo moiety.  such compounds have been shown to posses fungici­ dal properties.  the invention also provides methods of  preparing such compouds; fungicidal compositions con­ taining them and their use.  there are also provided inter­ mediates for making the compounds wherein a halogen  atom is present in place of x in formula i.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
pyridyliminomethyllenzene derivatives and acid-addition salts thereof; a process for preparing such compounds and intermediates for use in such process; fungicidal compositions comprising such compounds; and a method of protecting a crop from fungal attack with the aid of such compounds this invention relates to pyridyliminomethylbenzene derivatives and acid-addition salts thereof, and to their use as fungicides. the invention provides pyridyliminomethylbenzene derivatives and acid-addition salts thereof, said derivatives being compounds of general formula: emi1.1 wherein x is hydrogen, cyano, ethynyl, optionally-substituted alkyl, optionally substituted alkoxy, cycloalkoxy, alkenyloxy, alkynyloxy, aryloxy, haloaryloxy, alkoxyaryloxy, aralkyloxy, haloaralkyloxy, alkoxyaralkyloxy, optionally-substituted alkylthio, cycloalkylthio, alkenylthio, alkynylthio, arylthio, haloarylthio, alkoxyarythio, aralkylthio, or a group of formula: : emi1.2 where r and r2 are independently selected from hydrogen and optionally-substituted alkyl, or r and r2 together with the interjacent nitrogen atom form a heterocyclic ring of from 5 to 7 ring atoms, one of which ring atoms may be a further heteratom selected from nitrogen, oxygen and sulphur; m is 0, 1 or 2; y is a hydrogen atom or an alkyl, haloalkyl, alkoxy, haloalkoxy, halo, nitro, aryloxy, haloaryloxy, cyano or alkoxycarbonyl moiety; n is 0, 1 or 2; and z is an alkyl, alkoxy or halo moiety. (it is noted that when n=o then z is a hydrogen atom). the compounds of formula i are novel compounds. such compounds have been found to have fungicidal properties, and specific examples will be given hereinafter to illustrate the excellent activity of compounds of formula i as fungicides and the versatility thereof in terms of the wide range of fungus species which can be controlled by using such compounds. accordingly the invention further provides a fungicidal composition comprising a compound of formula i as defined above (or an acid-addition salt thereof) in association with at least one inert carrier therefor, and a method of making such a composition which comprises bringing a compound of formula i as defined above (or an acid-addition salt thereof) into association with at least one inert carrier therefor. further in accordance with the invention there is provided a method of protecting a crop from fungal attack comprising treating crops subject to or subjected to fungal attack, seeds of such crops or soil in which such crops are growing or are to be grown with a compound of formula i (or an acid-addition salt thereof) or a composition according to the invention. -the defined pyridyliminomethyl-benzene derivatives are, of course, compounds capable of forming acid-addition salts, for example, salts of hydrohalic acids, particularly of hydrochloric acid, or of sulphuric acid. such salts are, therefore, also novel compounds; and they are of interest as having the fungicidal activity of the pyridylimino-methylbenzene derivatives from which they are formed (in a manner well-known perise), and, accordingly, are included within the scope of the present invention. it is also noted in regard to such compounds that desirably they should be non-phytotoxic, which can readily be determined by routine test, since normally this is a requirement of fungicidal compositions. referring to the compounds of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims 1. a pyridyliminomethylbenzene derivative and acid-addition salts thereof, said derivative being a compound of general   formula : -    emi20.1       wherein x is hydrogen, cyano, ethynyl, optionally substituted alkyl, optionally substituted alkoxy,   cycloalkoxy,    alkenyloxy, alkynyloxy, aryloxy, haloaryloxy, alkoxyaryloxy, aralkyloxy, haloaralkyloxy, alkoxyaralkyloxy, optionally substituted alkylthio, cycloalkylthio, alkenylthio, alkynylthio, arylthio, haloarylthio, alkoxyarylthio, aralkylthio, or a group of formula: : emi20.2       where r1 and rê are independently selected from hydrogen and optionally substituted alkyl, or r1 and rê together with the interjacent nitrogen atom form a heterocyclic ring of from 5 to 7 ring atoms, one of which ring atoms may be a further heteroatom selected from nitrogen, oxygen and sulphur,  m is 0, 1 or 2;  y is a hydrogen atom of an alkyl, haloalkyl, alkoxy, haloalkoxy, halo, nitro, aryloxy, haloaryloxy, cyano or alkoxycarbonyl moiety;    n is 0, 1 or 2; and  z is an alkyl, alkoxy or halo moiety.   2. a compound according to claim 1, wherein x is hydrogen, alkyl, alkoxy, alkyloxyalkoxy, alkylthio, alkylamino or dialkylamino; m is 0, 1 or 2; y is halogen; and n is 0.   3. a compound according to claim 1 or 2, wherein x is   c1,16    alkoxy,   c1 6    alkylthio or   di-(cl 6    alkyl)amino, y is halogen and n is 0.   4. a compound according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein (y)m is a 4-halo substituent.   5. a compound according to claim 4, wherein (y)m is a 4-chloro substituent.   6. a compound according to claim 1, wherein x is cycloalkyloxy, amino-alkylamino or alkoxylalkylamino; m is 1 or 2; y is halogen; and n is 0.   7. a compound according to claim 6, wherein y is chlorine.   8. a compound according to any one of claims 1 to 3, 6 and 7, wherein y is chlorine and m is 2, the substituents   (y)m    being in the 2,4- or 3,4- positions of the benzene ring.   9. a compound according to claim 1 which is a compound as specified in any of the examples 1 to 41 inclusive.   10. a process for preparing a compound of formula i as defined in any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein x is other than hydrogen or optionally substituted alkyl, which comprises reacting a compound of general formula emi21.1       where m, n, y and z are all as defined in claim 1 and   x    is halogen, with a compound of formula    q-x     where x is as defined in claim 1 other than hydrogen or alkyl and q is hydrogen or an alkali metal atom, optionally in the presence of an acid acceptor.      11.    a process for preparing a compound of formula i as defined in claim 1 or 2, wherein x is hydrogen or alkyl, which comprises reacting a 3-amino pyridine of general formula: emi22.1       where n and z are as defined in claim 1 with a compound of general formula: emi22.2       where x is hydrogen or optionally substituted alkyl.   12. a fungicidal composition comprising a compound according to any one of claims 1 to 9 (or an acid-addition salts thereof) in association with at least one inert carrier therefor.   13. a method of protecting a crop from fungal attack comprising treating crops subject to or subjected to fungal attack, seeds of such crops or soil in which such crops are growing or are to be grown with a compound according to any one of claims 1 to 9 (or an acid addition salt thereof) or a composition according to claim 12.    14. a compound of general formula: emi22.3       wherein x is alkoxy, aryloxy, alkylthio, mono-alkylamino, dialkylamino or a six-membered nitrogen-containing heterocyclic ring  attached to the carbon atom through its nitrogen   atom; .m    is 0, 1 or 2; and y is halogen, haloalkyl or cyano.      i5.    a compound of general formula: emi23.1       wherein   x is    halogen; m is 0, 1 or 2; y is an alkyl, haloalkyl, alkoxy, haloalkoxy, halo, nitro, aryloxy, haloaryloxy, cyano or alkoxycarbonyl moiety; n is 0, 1 or 2; and z is an alkyl, alkoxy or halo moiety.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
