<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0006640
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800109
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
F16K-1/24 F16K-1/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
a butterfly valve.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
holland bergen machinenl <sep>b.v. machinefabriek en ijzergieterij "holland-bergen op zoom"<sep>b.v. machinefabriek en ijzergieterij "holland-bergen op zoom" havendijk 6 nl-4600 aa bergen op zoomnl<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
baas hendrik berhardnl<sep>baas, hendrik berhard<sep>baas, hendrik berhardden berg 20nl-4661 kz halsterennl<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a butterfly valve comprising a substantially cylind­ rical housing (7) with a seat (10) and a valve member (11)  supported rotatably in the housing and cooperating with  said seat, said valve member being provided with actuating  means lying outside the housing, the spindle (12) of the  valve member being supported excentrically in sleeves  (13) which are rotatably mounted in the housing, said  sleeves being provided with actuating means lying out­ side the housing, so that upon a rotational movement of  the sleeves the spindle of the valve will be displaced in  a direction perpendicular or substantially perpendicular  to the plane of the seat, wherein the excentric bearing of  the spindle of the valve is self-locking such that under the  influence of the forces acting inside the housing on the  valve member the bearing sleeves will not be rotated.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
a butterfly valve the invention relates to a butterfly valve comprising a substantially cylindrical housing with a seat and a valve member supported rotatably in the housing and cooperating with said seat, said valve member being provided with actuating means lying outside the housing, the spindle of the valve member being supported excentrically in sleeves which are rotatably mounted in the housing, said sleeves being provided with actuating means lying outside the housing, such that upon a rotational movement of the sleeves the spindle of the valve will be displaced in a direction perpendicular of substantially perpendicular to the plane of the seat. in such an embodiment of a butterfly valve first the valve member is brought in the position in which the valve member is closed. then by rotating the bearing sleeves the valve member is pressed onto the seat in the right position with a strong pressure. in rotating the valve member there is no friction resistance to overcome as a result of the movement of the sealing edge along the seat. it is an object of the invention to provide a valve which in the closed position of the valve member is autoa- tically locked. according to the invention the excentric bearing of the spindle of the valve is self-locking such that under the influence of the forces acting inside the housing on the valve member the bearing sleeves will not be rotated. so, the valve member is automatically locked without the necessity to lock the actuating means of the valve from the outside. according to the invention the actuating means of the valve member and the actuating means of the bearing sleeves can be connected by a common actuating device and the reaction force created upon actuating the valve member is produced by the actuating member connected with the bearing sleeves, so that the bearing sleeves will be rotated under influence of the reaction force, when this force in the closed position of the valve member increases and passes a well defined value. one has then one single actuating device. first the actuating device is used for bringing the valve member in the closed position and when in the closed position the reaction force passes a defined value, the actuating device will also rotate the bearing sleeves so that the valve member is pressed home on its seat. according to the invention the valve member in the closed position can engage a stop in order to let increase the reaction force. in an advantageous embodiment of a butterfly valve the seat of the valve has a seating surface defining a section of an oblique cone having its apex lying in the wall of the cylindrical housing, a section of the cone perpendicular to the axis of the housing being in the shape of a circle and the rotating axis of the valve member lying excentrically in relation to the axis of the cylindrical housing and lying displaced in axial direction in relation to the plane of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 a butterfly valve    claims:  1. a butterfly valve comprising a substantially cylindrical housing with a seat and a valve member supported rotatably in the housing and cooperating with said seat, said valve member being provided wiht actuating means lying outside the housing, the spindle of the valve member being supported excentrically in sleeves which are rotatably mounted in the housing, said sleeves being provided with actuating means lying outside the housing, such that upon a rotational movement of the sleeves the spindle of the valve will be displaced in a direction perpendicular or substantially perpendicular to the plane of the seat, characterized in that the excentric bearing of the spindle of the valve is self-locking such that under the influence of the forces acting inside the housing on the valve member the bearing sleeves will not be rotated.    2. a butterfly valve as defined in claim 1 charac  terized in that the actuating means of the valve member and the actuating means of the bearing sleeves are connected by a common actuating device and the reaction force created upon actuating the valve member is produced by the actuating member connected with the bearing sleeves so that the bearing sleeves will be rotated under influence of the reaction force, when this force in the closed position of the valve member increases and passes a well defined value.    3. a butterfly valve as defined in claim 1 or 2, characterized in that the valve member in the closed position engages a stop in order to let increase the reaction force.    4. a butterfly valve as defined in one or more of the preceeding claims in which the seat has a seating surface defining a section of an oblique cone having its apex lying in the wall of the cylindrical housing, a section of the cone perpendicular to the axis of the housing being in the shape of a circle and the rotating axis of the valve member lying excentrically in relation to the axis of the cylindrical housing and lying displaced in axial direction in relation to the plane of the sealing edge of the valve member, characterized in that the sealing edge of the valve member and the sealing edge of the seat consists of a stiff material, more especially metal or plastic.    5. a butterfly valve as defined in anyone of the preceeding claims, characterized in that the actuating member of the bearing sleeves is biassed by a spring for rotating the bearing sleeves in the direction in which the valve member is removed from its seat.     6. a butterfly valve as defined in one or more of the preceeding claims, characterized in that the actuating device for the valve member and for the bearing sleeves consists of a cylinder and a piston, one of which is connected with the actuating member of the valve member of the bearing sleeves, said cylinder having connections for supplying a pressure fluid on either side of the piston.      7. a   butterfly    valve as defined in one or more of the claims 1 to 5, characterized in that the actuating   desrjce    consists of a worm gearing of which the casing is mounted on the bearing sleeves and the toothed wheel is connected with the spindle of the valve member and that the housing is provided with a bracket, which can move between two fixed stops and which is biassed by a spring.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
