<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0016241
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19801001
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
F16T-1/00 F16T-1/34 B01D-29/01 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
apparatus for removing condensate from steam lines, and the like.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
engineering resources ltdus<sep>thermal con serv corpus<sep>engineering resources, ltd.<sep>thermal con-serv corp. <sep>engineering resources, ltd. 8550 west bryn mawr avenuechicago illinois 60631us<sep>thermal con-serv corp.701 sampson streethouston texas 77003us<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
brown timothy sus<sep>brown, timothy s.<sep>brown, timothy s.7530 brompton roadhouston texas 77003us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
apparatus for removing condensate from steam lines  and the like, wherein an orifice (340) is provided in a conden­ sate drain line as new equipment or to replace a conventional  condensate trap.  screen means (50) are supported against a  screen supporting shoulder (358) around one end of said  orifice (340).  a u-shaped rim (353) of said screen means (50) is  compressively engaged against the sides (357) of a flow pas­ sage.  a number of embodiments of the apparatus are pre­ sented.  the apparatus includes novel unitary apparatuses  and novel means for connecting the apparatus to other  equipment.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
this invention is generally directed to use in removing condensate from steam lines, from steam systems, and from other systems from which liquid must be removed. the apparatuses are particularly useful for the removal of liquids from systems under pressure, wherein it is desired to remove pressured liquid without excessive removal of pressured gases. in united states patent no. 3,715,870, apparatus is disclosed for use in removing condensate from steam pipelines. a modified apparatus for the same purpose is disclosed in patent no. 3,877,895. the apparatuses as disclosed in these patents require the use of spiral wound gasket assemblies, and the strainer required upstream of the orifice to prevent plugging of the orifice is mounted within one of the spiral wound gasket assemblies. spiral wound gasket assemblies are relatively expensive and in many applications are somewhat cumbersome and difficult to assemble. this invention presents apparatuses of simpler form wherein the aforesaid difficulties are eliminated. the present invention provides drain orifice apparatus, comprising body means having a flow passage therethrough, plate means unitarily formed with said body means disposed to close said flow passage, an orifice through said plate means communicating between the opposite sides of said plate means for restricted fluid flow therethrough, screen means tightly fitted around its entire outer periphery around the entire interior periphery of the wall of said flow pas sage in spaced proximity to one si de of said plate means for removing detritus which would block said orifice from fluids flowing through said flow passage in a direction through said screen means toward said orifice, a screen supporting shoulder disposed around one end of said orifige between-said one end of said orifice and said screen means and against which said screen means is disposed, said screen means being constructed to be passable to against said shoulder through the portion of said flow passage at said one side of said plate means in a direction longitudinal of said flow passage portion, said flow passage portion being of uniform diameter over all of its length between one end of said body means and said screen supporting shoulder and said screen means being of the same diameter. in some modifications of the apparatus, no seal at all is required, the orifice being provided in a unitary fitting which may be screw conne#cted or flange connected directly into a condensate line. in other manifestations, the apparatus requires the use of conventional seals used in conventional manner. the invention also provides an improved screen for use in conjunction with condensate removal orifices which is of simplified form and is easy -to install. a variety of forms of apparatuses according to the invention are presented for connection to virtually any pipeline or equipment system. otter features and advantages of the invention will appear from the following detailed description of preferred embodiments with reference to the accompanying drawings in which: fig. 1 is an axial cross section of a preferred embodiment of apparatus according to the invention; fig. 2 is an
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims    1. drain orifice apparatus,   comprising#b6dy    means having a flow passage therethrough, plate-means disposed to   close said flow#passage, #an orifice- throuqh#said#p1a#te means    communicating between the opposite sides of said #plate means fo-r restricted fluid flow therethrough} screen means tightly fitted around its entire-outer periphery aro#und the entire interior periphe#ry of the wall of said   flow      pass-age- in-    spaced proximity to one side of said plate means for removing detritus which would block said orifice from fluids flowing through said flow passage in a direction through #said s-creen means toward said orifice,  a screen supporting shoulder disposed around one end of said orifice betw#een   said- one- end of    said orifice and   said -screen    means and   against-#-which    said screenmeans is disposed, said   screen means    being   constructed    to be passable to against said shoulder through the portion of said flow passage at said one side of #said plate means in a direction longitudinal of said flow passage   portion,    said flow passage portion being of uniform   diameter and-sa-id    screen means being of the same diameter, said screen means comprising a fine mesh screen having openings no larger   than the    size of said orifice and a coarse mesh screen   having-larger    openings,  said screens being disposed one against the other across said flow passage with said   coarse mesh screen    being disposed at the side-toward said plate means,# s#aid screen means including   rim    therearound having a u-shaped cross section enveloping the edges   of -both#-said    fine   -mesh#-screen    and said coarse mesh screen at its opposite   sides    and tightly fitted against the# sides of   said#flow    passage portion at its central   portion,    said rim of said screen means being¯ tightly fitted in said flow passage portion-as described as the resuit of one side of said rim having been bent   from a    position par-allely against said wall of said-flow passage portion and  <rti     id=20.22> away    from said   screen means    to a   position    radial with respect to said wall and against said# screen means whereby said central portion of said rim is in# an expanded conditio-n against said wall of   said# flow    passage portion.      2    the apparatus according to claim   i,    wherein     said plate mea# ffi is unitary with said body means.       3. apparatus according to claim 1 or 2 wherein said plate means is intermediate the length of said flow passage.    4. apparatus according to claim 4 wherein said plate means is closer to one end of said flow passage than to the other end of said flow passage.    5. apparatus according to claim 1, 2, 3 or   4i    wherein said flow passage has a conical portion the apex of which is toward said orifice at one side of said plate means, said conical portion providing said screen supporting shoulder against which said screen means is disposed.    6. apparatus according to claim 5, wherein said screen supporting shoulder is formed by ring means engaged between the peripheries of said screen means and said plate means.    7. apparatus according to any of claims 1 to 6, wherein said plate means is disposed at an end of said flow passage at an end of said body means and said flow passage comprising a continuous passage to one side of said plate means.    8. apparatus according to any of claims 1 to 7, wherein the rim of said screen means is compressively engaged against the sides of said flow passage at its central portion, one side of said rim being bent from a position away from said screen means to against said screen means to expand said rim in said flow passage.    9. apparatus according to any of claims 1 to 8, wherein said body means comprises plural body parts connected together to form'a body   structure\.       10. drain orifice apparatus, comprising body means having a flow passage therethrogh, plate means   unitarily    formed with said body means disposed to close said flow passage, an orifice through said plate means communicating between the opposite sides of said plate means for restricted fluid flow   therethrough,    screen means tightly fitted around its entire outer periphery around the entire interior periphery of the.wall of said flow passage in spaced proximity'to one side of said plate means for removing detritus which would block said orifice from fluids flowing through said flow pas  sage in a direction through said screen means toward said orifice, a screen supporting shoulder disposed -around one end of said orifice between said one end of said orifice and said screen means and against which said screen means is disposed,  said screen means being constructed to be passable to against said shoulder through the portion of said flow passage at said one side of said plate means in a direction longitudinal of said flow passage portion, said flow pass#age portion being of uniform diameter over all of its length between one end of said body means and said screen supporting shoulder and said screen means being of the same diameter.    11. apparatus according to claim 10, wherein said screen means comprises a fine mesh screen having openings no larger than the size of said orifice and a coarse mesh screen having larger openings, said -screens being disposed one against the other   across    said#flow passage with said coarse mesh screen being disposed at the side toward said plate means.    12. apparatus according to claim 11, wherein said screen means includes a rim therearound having a u-shaped cross section enveloping the edges of both said fine mesh screen and said coarse mesh screen at its opposite sides and c#ompressively engaged against the sides of said flow   passage portion    at its central portion.      13.    apparatus according to claim 10, 11, or 12, wh#erein said plate means is disposed at an end of said   flow    passage comprising   a      continuous    passage to one side of said plate means.     14. apparatus according to claim 10, 11, 12 or 13, wherein said body means is externally threaded and is screwed into an internal thread formation around the outlet of a ystrainer, said y-strainer comprising a tubular body having said internal thread formation around an end thereof comprising said   outlet    and having an angular outlet intermediate its length.    15. apparatus according# to any of claims 10 to 14, wherein said body means is disposed at the end of a pipe   through    which fluid may be directed toward said screen means and orifice thereof, said pipe having a valved branch portion having an additional body means disposed at its end through which excess fluid may be directed      16.      i\pp#ratus    according to any of claims 10 to 15,  wherein said plate means is sealingly disposed against said  screen supporting shoulder.    17. drain orifice apparatus, comprising body means  having a flow passage therethrough, plate means disposed to  close said flow passage, an orifice through said plate means    communicating    between the opposite sides of said plate means  for   restricted    fluid flow there through, screen means tightly  fitted around its entire outer periphery around the entire  interior periphery of the wall of   saia    flow passage in spaced  proximity to one side of said plate means for removing detri  tus which would block said orifice from fluids flowing through  said flow passage in a direction through said screen means  toward said orifice, a screen supporting shoulder disposed around one end of said orifice between said one end of said orifice and said screen means and against which said screen means is disposed,  said screen means being constructed to be  passable to against said shoulder through the portion of said  flow passage at said one side of said plate means in a direc  tion longitudinal of said flow passage portion, said flow  passage portion being of uniform diameter and said screen means being of the same diameter, said body means comprising plural body parts connected together to form a body structure,  said plural body parts of said body means comprising a pair  of pipe members each having an end flange, means for securing  said end flanges together, and said plate means being sealedly  disposed between said end flanges.      18.    apparatus according to claim 17, wherein said  plate means has tubular means extending from each side thereof  into said pipe members, and seal means disposed around each  said tubular means for sealing between said plate means and  each said pipe member.    19. apparatus according to claim 17 wherein said  orifice has threads therearound and an externally threaded body  screwed   thereinto     20. apparatus according to claim 17 wherein said  plate means has a cylindrical recess at one side within which  said screen means is disposed and having a conical recess having  said orifice leading from its apex disposed between said cylin    drcat    recess and said orifice and forming said screen support  ing shoulder.    21. drain orifice apparatus comprising body means having   a-flow    passage therethrough, plate means disposed to close said   flow passaye,    an orifice through said plate mean-s communicating between the opposite sides of said plate means for restricted fluid therethrough, screen means tightly fitted around its entire outer periphery around the entire interior periphery of the wall of said flow passage in spaced proximity to one side of said plate means for removing   detritus#whicb    would block said orifice from fluids flowing through said flow passage in a direction through said screen means toward said orifice,  a screen supporting shoulder disposed around one   na    of said orifice between sa-id one end of said orifice and said screen means and   against lvhich    said screen means is disposed, said screen means being constructed to be passable to against said shoulder through the portion of said flow passage at said one side of said plate means in a direction longitudinal of said flow passage portion, said flow   passage.portion    being of uniform diameter and said screen means being of the same diameter, said body means comprising plural body parts connected together to form a body structure,  said plural body parts of said body means comp#rising a tubular member having internally threaded ends and having said screen supporting shoulder projecting inwardly annularly   therearoundw    and a pipe member hav   ing# a    closed end forming   said# plate    means screwed into one of said internally threaded ends, said screen means being disposed against said shoulder at the side thereof opposite said pipe member.    22. drain orifice apparatus, comprising body means having a   flow    passage   therethrougll,    plate means disposed to close said flow passage, an orifice through said plate means communicating between the opposite sides of said plate means for res   tricted    fluid flow therethrough, screen means tightly fitted around its entire ou-ter periphery around the entire interior periphery of the wall of said flow passage in spaced proximity to one side of said plate means for removing detritus   which1    would block said# orifice from fluids flowing through   said-ilow    passage in a direction through said screen means toward said orifice,  a screen supporting shoulder disposed around one end   of said o#jfj,'# b###twpen .#iid one no end o-f- said orifice and said     screen   means    and against which said screen means is disposed, said screen means being constructed to be passable to against said shoulder through the portion of said flow passage at   sqid    one side of said plate means in a direction longitudinal of said flow passage portion, said flow passage portion being of uniform diameter and said screen means being of the same   d    meter, said body means comprising plural body parts connected together to form a body structure, said plural body parts of said body means comprising a first pipe member having a closed end forming said plate means and having an externally project ing annular shoulder therearound,  a second pipe member connected to said first pipe member with an end thereof sealingly abutted against said closed end of said first pipe member and having external threads around said end thereof, and a collar having an inwardly   i,-ojecting    annular shoulder therearound adapted to abut said externally projecting annular shoulder and having internal threads adapted to engage said external threads for holding said pipe member ends abutted together, said screen means being disposed in a cylindrical recess in said end of said second pipe member and being disposed against said closed end of said first pipe member, said closed end of said first pipe member being recessed inwardly of the outer edge portion of said screen means at the side of said closed end against which said screen means is disposed  23.  screen apparatus adapted for clamped disposition within a surrounding uninterrupted cylindrical wall, comprisin-g screen means comprising at least one circular screen element, a circular rim disposed about the, peripheries of said screen elements having a u-shaped cross section having one side adapted to be bent to give said rim a u-shaped cross section about said peripheries of said screen elements   withìn-the    surrounding uninterrupted cylindrical wall to expand said rim outwardly about said screen elements into clamped engagement with the surrounding uninterrupted cylindrical wall.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
