<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0009654
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800416
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<main>E04B-1/98</main> F16F-7/12 E04B-1/98 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
blast-resistant barrier.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
robertson co h hus<sep>h.h.±robertson company<sep>h.h. robertson companytwo gateway centerpittsburgh pennsylvania 15222us<sep>h.h. robertson company  <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
ming long ting raymond<sep>ming long ting, raymond<sep>ming long ting, raymond318 holiday drivepittsburgh, pennsylvania 15237us<sep>ming long ting, raymond<sep>ming long ting, raymond318 holiday drivepittsburgh, pennsylvania 15237us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
an energy absorbing device (30) having a faceplate (31)  and a base (32,33) and at least two permanently deformable  sidewalls (34,35) extending between and connecting the  faceplate (31) to the base (32,33).  each of the sidewalls (34,35)  is partially bent along at least one bend line (38) disposed  between and extending parallel with the faceplate (31) and the ­ base (32,33).  upon the occurrence of substantial impact upon  the faceplate (31), each of the sidewalls (34,35) will perma­ nently deform about the bend line (38) and collapse toward  the base (32,33) thereby to absorb the impact energy transmit­ ted.  the device (30) is useful in blast-resistant roof and wall  structures wherein the device (30) is crushed prior to panel  failure.  the device (30) can absorb more than 50% of the blast  impulse.  the present device (30) may also be interposed between a  structure and a source of anticipated dynamic impact load.   the device (30) will sustain the dynamic impact load from the  source by absorption of the impact energy transmitted.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
energy absorbing device this invention relates to a device of the type adapted to absorb and dissipate the kinetic energy transmitted by dynamic impact loads. the protection of structures from damage resulting from dynamic impact loads has become increasingly important because of the high cost of repairing the resulting damage. such protection is provided by a number of different types of energy absorbing devices. in general the type of energy absorbing device to which the present invention is concerned includes one or more expendable elements which are used only once and then are replaced for the next use. in particular, the expendable element comprises a core which absorbs the impact energy by permanent deformation, e.g., wrinklebuckling or crushing of the core walls. it is known that extremely high initial peak loads are required to initiate buckling of the core walls. once buckling has been initiated, the load (plastic load) required to continue crushing of the core walls is significantly less than the peak load. it is also well known that the structure supporting the energy absorbing device also must be capable of sustaining the high peak load. consequently, economies in the construction of the supporting structure can be achieved by providing an energy. absorbing device wherein the peak load is approximately equal to the plastic load, i.e., wherein the peak load-to-plastic load ratio approaches unity. energy absorbing devices having expendable cores are well known in the prior art. such devices may exhibit (a) a substantially uniform energy absorption rate, see u.s. patent 3,130,819 (marshall); (b) a uniformly increasing energy absorption rate followed by a substantially uniform energy absorption, see u.s. patents 3,552,525 (schudel) and 3,682,463 (radimirsch et al); and (c) two or more energy absorption rates of progressively higher value, see u.s. patents 3,806,180 (patterson) and 3,981,114 (chupik), west german patent 1,923,305 (gerth), and copending application serial number 855,074 (bricmont et al) filed november 25, 1977, and assigned to the assignee of this invention. the core of the marshall device is provided with a precrushed end. while the marshall device avoids the high buckle-initiating peak loads when in use, the loads are encountered during manufacture of the core. that manufacturing technique requires the expenditure of large amounts of costly energy. the schudel and radimirsch et al devices also avoid the high buckle-initiating peak loads. both devices incorporate modified honeycomb cores and anvils which are relatively expensive to manufacture. the patterson, chupik, gerth, and bricmont et al devices attempt to minimize the effects of the high buckle-initiating peak loads by providing stepwise absorption of the impact energy. the principal object of this invention is to provide energy absorbing devices which exhibit peak load-to-plastic load ratios of from 3 to 1. another object of this invention is to provide a blastresistant barrier, such as a wall or roof structure, incor -porating a panel structure and the present energy absorbing device, which exhibits significantly reduced dynamic reactions. the reduced dynamic reactions in such structures: (a) provides economies in the material and construction of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:   1. an energy absorbing device comprising:  a faceplate;  a base confronting said faceplate and being spaced from  and generally parallel therewith; and  a row of spaced-apart permanently deformable sidewalls  aligned in generally parallel confronting relation  relative to each other and extending transversely of  said faceplate, said sidewalls having opposite edges  connected to said faceplate and to said base, each of  said sidewalls being partially bent along at least one  bend line spaced from and extending generally parallel  with said faceplate and said base;  whereby upon the occurrence of dynamic impact loads  upon said faceplate, each of said sidewalls will  permanently deform about the bend line and about the  opposite edges thereof to absorb the impact energy  transmitted.     2. the device of claim 1 wherein said sidewalls include:  first segments which are oppositely inclined from said  faceplate toward the bend lines; and  second segments each of which is inclined from the bend  line toward said base and in a direction opposite to  that of the adjoining first segment.   3. the device of claim 2 wherein said first segments are  converging segments.   4. the device of claim 2 wherein said first segments are  diverging segments.   5. the device of claim 2 wherein the acute angle between  each of said first segments and the plane of said    fa-eplate    is greater than 20 angular degrees and less  than 75 angular degrees.   6. the device of claim 2 or 5 wherein the acut angle  between each of said second segments and the plane of  said base is greater than 20 angular degrees and less  than 75 angular degrees.   7. the device of claim 1 wherein each of said sidewalls  has a sawtooth profile and presents plural bend lines.   8. the device of claim   wherein    the bend lines reside  substantially midway between said faceplate and said  base.   9. the device of claim 1 wherein  said device is in the form of a continuous metal sheet;    said faceplate having opposite sides adjoined to  corresponding first edges of said sidewalls; and  said base comprising mounting flanges having confronting  edges adjoined to corresponding opposite edges of said  sidewalls and extending laterally outwardly thereof.   10. the device of claim 9 wherein the width of each of said  first segments is at most equal to one-half the width  of said faceplate.   11. the device of claim 9 wherein said mounting flanges  extend outwardly beyond the opposite edges of said  faceplate.   12. the device of claim 1 wherein said sidewalls   reside     substantially entirely between opposite sides of said  faceplate and extend continuously between opposite ends  of said faceplate.   13. a blast-resistant barrier comprising:  spaced-apart generally parallel frame   members     a panel structure spanning the distance between said  frame members and being adapted to undergo plastic  deformation on application of dynamic impact loads; and  support means, one interposed between each of said  frame members and said panel structure, supporting said  panel structure spaced from said frame members, each of  said support means including at least two spaced-apart  permanently deformable sidewalls extending between said  panel structure and the adjacent frame member, each of  said sidewalls being partially bent along at least one  bend line disposed between opposite edges thereof and  extending parallel with the adjacent frame members; ;      whereby    upon the occurrence of dynamic impact loads  upon said barrier said support means will collapse  toward said frame members at a first peak resistance,  and said panel structure will undergo plastic deforma  tion at a second peak resistance which is greater than  said first peak resistance to absorb the impact energy  transmitted.   14. the blast-resistant barrier of claim 13 wherein each of  said support means extends continuously along the  adjacent frame member and between opposite longitudinal  sides of said panel structure.   15. the blast-resistant barrier of claim 13 wherein each of  said support means is formed from sheet metal having a  nominal thickness of from 0.121 to 0.342 centimeters.   16. the blast-resistant barrier of claim 13 wherein   each    of  said sidewalls has a sawtooth profile and presents  plural bend lines.   17. the blast-resistant barrier of claim 13 wherein each of  said support means comprises:  a faceplate secured to said panel structure;  mounting flanges secured to the adjacent frame members;  and  said sidewalls connecting opposite outer edges of said  faceplate to adjacent inner edges of said mounting  flanges.   18. the blast resistant barrier of claim 17 wherein the  width of each first segment is at most equal to one  half the width of said faceplate.     19. the blast-resistant barrier of claim 17 wherein the  bend lines reside substantially midway between said  faceplate and said mounting flanges.   20. the blast-resistant barrier of claim 17 wherein said  sidewalls include:  first segments which are oppositely inclined from said  faceplate toward the bend lines; and  second segments each of which is inclined from the bend  line in a direction opposite to that of the adjoining  first segment.   21. the blast-resistant barrier of claim'20 wherein said  first segments are converging segments.   22.   tle    blast-resistant barrier of claim 20 wherein said  first segments are diverging segments.   23. the blast-resistant barrier of   claim 20    wherein the  acute angle between each of said first segments and  said faceplate is greater than 20 angular degrees and  less than 75 angular degrees.   24. the blast-resistant barrier of claim 20 or 23 wherein  the acute angle between-each of said second segments  and the face of the adjacent frame member is greater  than 20 angular degrees and less than 75 angular  degrees.   25. in combination, a source of anticipated dynamic impact  load, a structure confronting said source of antici  pated dynamic impact load and a device interposed  between said structure and said source and adapted to  sustain dynamic impact load from said source by ab    sorption of the impact energy transmitted, said device  comprising:  a base plate adjacent to said structure;  a faceplate confronting said source and extending sub  stantially parallel with said base plate;  and  at least two spaced-apart permanently deformable side  walls extending between and connected to said base  plate and to said faceplate, each of said sidewalls  being partially bent along at least one bend line  spaced from and generally parallel with said faceplate  and with said base plate;  whereby upon the occurrence of said dynamic impact load  upon said faceplate, each of said sidewalls will    permanently    deform about the bend line to absorb the  impact energy transmitted.    26. the combination of claim 25 wherein said sidewalls  extend continuously between opposite edges of said  faceplate.   27. the combination of claim 25 wherein the bend lines  reside. substantially midway between said faceplate and  said base plate.    28. the combination of claim 25 wherein said sidewalls  include:  first segments which are oppositely inclined from said  faceplate toward the bend lines; and  second segments each of which is inclined from the bend  line in a direction opposite to that of the adjoining  first segment.  29.   ¯   the combination of claim   28    wherein said first segments  are converging segments.   30. the combination of claim 28 wherein said first segments  are diverging segments.   31. the combination of claim 28 wherein the acute angle  between each of said first segments and said faceplate  is greater than 20 angular degrees and less than 75  angular degrees.   32. the combination of claim 28 or 31 wherein the acute  angle between each of said second segments and said  base plate is greater than 20 angular degrees and less  than 75 angular degrees.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
