<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0007171
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800123
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
C08G-63/78 C08G-75/00 C08G-63/20 C08L-81/00 C08L-67/02 C08L-67/00 C08G-63/00 C08G-75/24 C08L-81/08 C08G-63/19 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
polymer compositions, molded articles and films with improved hydrolytic stability.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
hooker chemicals plastics corpus<sep>hooker chemicals & plastics corp.<sep>hooker chemicals &amp; plastics corp.p.o.box 189 345, third streetniagara falls new york 14302us  <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
rosenfeld jerold cus<sep>salee gideonus<sep>rosenfeld, jerold c.<sep>salee, gideon<sep>rosenfeld, jerold c.18, willowgreen drivetonawanda new york 14150us<sep>salee, gideon146, segbury drivewilliamsville new york 14221us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
this invention relates to substantially transparent solid  solution polymer blends having improved hydrolytic stability,  and flexibility which comprise (a) a linear aromatic polyester  containing as monomer units the residues of a dicarboxylic  acid and a bisphenol, and (b) a linear aromatic polysulfonate  containing as monomer units the residues of a bisphenol and  a disulfonic acid.  the polyblends are useful in preparation of  films and molded articles.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
polymer compositions, molded articles and films with improved hydrolytic stability ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ this invention relates to blends of linear aromatic polyesters and linear aromatic polysulfonates. more particularly it is directed to polyblends of polyesters derived from a bisphenol and a dicarboxylic acid with polysulfonate polymers derived from a bisphenol and a disulfonic acid. it is especially conccrned with solid solution polyblends of the foregoing polymeric components. linear aromatic polyesters prepared from dicarboxylic acids, especially from aromatic dicarboxylic acids and bisphenols are well known for their suitability for molding, extrusion, casting, and film-forming applications. for example, u.s. patent 3,216,970 to conix, disclose linear aromatic polyesters prepared from isophth- alic acid, terephthalic acid, and a bisphenolic compound. such high molecular weight compositions are known to b useful in the preparation of various films and fibers. further, these compositions, when molded into useful articles using conventional techniques, provide properties superior to articles molded from other linear polyester compositions. for instance, aromatic polyesters are known to have a variety of useful properties, such as good tensile, impact, and bending strengths, high thermal deformation and thermal decomposition temperatures, resistance to uv irradiation and good electrical properties. aromatic polyesters which are particularly well suited for film-foming and molding applications may also be prepared by reacting an organic diacid halide with a-difunctional aliphatic reactive modifier, such as a glycol, and subsequently reacting this product with a bisphenol compound. the resulting polyesters have reduced melt viscosities and melting points which permits molding at temperatures within the operable limits of conventional molding apparatus (i.e. less than about 3000c.). this type of glycol-modified polyester is more fully disclosed in u.s. patent 3,471,441, to hindersinn. in order to form a successful molding resin on a commercial scale, a polymer should be capable of being molded conveniently without significant degradation in physical properties. in this respect, although the aforementioned aromatic polyesters generally display excellent physical and chemical properties, a persistent and troublesome problem has been their sensitivity to hydrolytic degradation at elevated temperatures. this sensitivity to the combined effects of heat'and moisture is also exhibited in commercially available polycarbonate resins as evidenced by the desirability of reducing the water content of the resin to less than about 0.05% prior to molding. unfortunately, however, the aromatic polyester resins often display a more pronounced tendency to rapidly degrade and embrittle than do polycarbonate resins. this is demonstrated by the loss in a polymer property, e.g. tensile strength, which can occur when an aromatic polyester resin is molded and subsequently immersed in boiling water. this tendency may be explained, in part, by the hydrolysis of the ester linkages under these conditions. in any event, it is to be appreciated that sensitivity to moisture represents a significant problem in aromatic polyester resins that would significantly limit their commercial utility in applications such as in autoclaves or at elevated temperatures in humid atmospheres. in addition to the aforementioned problem of hydrolytic stability, the linear aromatic polyesters have relatively poor bending flexibility, i.e. films of the polyester readily crack
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims   1. a thermoplastic polymeric composition characterized by comprising a solid solution polyblend of a) a linear aromatic polyester containing as monomer units the residues of a bisphenol and a dicarboxylic acid and b) a linear aromatic polysulfonate containing as monomer units the residues of a bisphenol and a disulfonic acid.   2. a composition according to claim 1 wherein said aromatic polyester a) contains as monomer units the residues of a   dicarboxylic    acid of the formula: emi29.1       wherein z is   alylene1      ar-    or ar-y-ar- where ar is aromatic, y is alkylene, haloalkylene, -0-,   s-i    -so2-, -so3-, -co-, gp=o or gn < , weherein g is alkyl, haloalkyl, aryl1 haloaryl,   alkylaryl.    haloalkylaryl, arylalkyl, haloarylalkyl, cycloalkyl or cyclohaloalkyl; and n is   0    or 1.   3. a composition according to claim 2 wherein said dicarboxylic acid is an aromatic dicarboxylic acid.   4. a composition according to claim 3 wherein said aromatic dicarboxylic acid is isophthalic acid, terephthalic acid or a mixture thereof.   5. a composition according to any one of claims 1 to 4 wherein said aromatic polyester a) and/or aromatic polysulfonate b) contains as monomer units the residues of a bisphenol of the formula: emi29.2        wherein ar is aromatic, g is alkyl.   haloalkyl,    aryl, haloaryl, alkylaryl, haloalkylaryl, arylalkyl, haloarylalkyl, cycloalkyl or cyclohaloalkyl; e is divalent alkylene, haloalkylene, cycloalkylene, halocycloalkylene, arylene or   baloarylene,-0-,    -s-, -so-,-s02-,   -s03-,      co-,    gp=o or   gn---:    t and t' independently represent   halogen    g or og; m is o or an integer from i to the number of replaceable hydrogen atoms on e; b is   0    or an integer from 1 to the number of replaceable hydrogen atoms on   ar,    and x is o or 1.   6. a composition according to claim 5 wherein the bisphenol is bisphenol-a.   7. a composition   according    to any one of claims 1 to 6 wherein the aromatic polyester a) contains as monomer units the residues of an aliphatic modifier.   8. a composition according to claim 7 wherein the aliphatic modifier is a glycol of 2 to 100 carbon atoms.   9, a composition according to claim 8 wherein said glycol is neopentyl glycol, diethylene glycol, ethylene glycol, or a mixture of at least two of these.   10. a composition according to any one of claims 1 to 9 wherein the polysulfonate b) contains as monomer units the residues of a disulfonic acid of the formula:  ho - 02s - z' - s02 - oh wherein z' is alkylene or cycloalkylene of 2 to 6 carbon atoms, -ar- or   -ar-y'-ar-    where ar is aromatic,   yt    is alkylene1 haloalkylene, -0-, -s-, -s02-, -co- or   n wherein g is alkyl, haloalkyl, aryl, haloaryl,    alkylaryl, haloalkylaryl, arylalkyl, haloarylalkyl, cycloalkyl or cyclohaloalkyl.     11. a composition according to claim 10 wherein the disulfonic acid is an aromatic disulfonic acid.   12. a composition according to claim 11 wherein the aromatic disulfonic acid is 1,4-, 1,3- or   112-benzene    disulfonic acid, 2,4-toluene disulfonic acid, 2,7-naphthalene disulfonic acid, 4,4'-diphenyl disulfonic acid, 4,4'-diphenylether disulfonic acid, 4,4'-diphenyl methane disulfonic acid, 3,3'- or 4,4'-diphenyl sulfone disulfonic acid, 2,2'-bis-(4-hydroxysulfonyl phenyl )-propane, 4,5or   4,6-dichloro-1,3-benzene    disulfonic acid or   4,5,6-      trichloro    1,3-benzene disulfonic acid.   13. a composition according to claim 12 wherein the aromatic polysulfonate b) contains residues of 4,4'diphenyl disulfonic acid and bisphenol-a.   14. a composition according to any one of claims 1 to 13 wherein the weight ratio of aromatic polyester a) to aromatic polysulfonate b) is from 5:95 to 95:5.   15. a composition according to claim 14 wherein the weight ratio of the aromatic polyester a) to aromatic polysulfonate b) is from 30:70 to 70;30.   16. a   composition    according to any one of claims 1 to 15 wherein the aromatic polyester a) has been prepared by melt polymerization.    17. a composition according to any one of claims 1 to 16 which also contains a filler material.   18. a composition according to claim 17 wherein the filler material is glass fiber.   19. a thermoplastic polymeric composition characterized by comprising a solid solution polyblend of a) an aromatic polyester selected from poly(bisphenol a-isophthalate), poly-(bisphenol a-terephthalate) and bisphenol-a isophthalate-terephthalate polyester and b) bisphenol-a - 4,4' diphenyl disulfonate polysulfonate, the weight ratio of said polyester a) to said polysulfonate b) being from 30:70 to 70:30.     20. a molded article formed from a composition as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 19.   21. a film prepared from a composition as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 19.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
