<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0012160
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800625
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
G01F-1/66 G01P-5/00 G01F-1/74 <main>G01N-29/02</main> G01N-29/024 G01N-29/02 G01P-5/24 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
ultrasonic method and apparatus for determining quantitative and volumetric data of an oil-water mixture.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
conoco incus <sep>conoco inc. <sep>conoco inc. 1000 south pine street p.o. box 1267ponca city oklahoma 74603us<sep>conoco inc.  <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
alexander john donald<sep>reed philip warren<sep>alexander, john donald<sep>reed, philip warren<sep>alexander, john donald1103 south seventhponca city oklahoma 74601us<sep>reed, philip warren621 detroitponca city oklahoma 74601us<sep>alexander, john donald<sep>reed, philip warren<sep>alexander, john donald1103 south seventhponca city oklahoma 74601us<sep>reed, philip warren621 detroitponca city oklahoma 74601us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
in a method and apparatus for metering water content  in an oil-water system by determining sonic velocities in the  flowing oil-water mixture, and thereafter determining flow  rate to provide individual oil and water rates which may  then be integrated to provide oil and water volume of flow,  the improvement comprising self-calibrating for salt content  of the system water by measuring the speed of sound in  the water phase only and utilizing the measured value in  determinations of the system water cut.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
improved method and apparatus for sonic velocity type water cut measurement background of the invention field of the invention the present invention relates to an improved method and apparatus for maintaining continual readout of the components of flowing oil-water systems thereby to record continual quantitative record. description of the prior art the prior art includes several types of flow monitoring apparatus which have been utilized ih the past for determining the content of oil and water in production oil well testing procedures and related pipeline transportation wherein oil-water systems are flowing. the. prior methods utilize net oil computers or a related type of net oil analyzer which determines oil and water rates during well testing by utilizing two or three phase separators with subsequent analysis using a capacitance cell. normally, a capacitance cell is only capable of measuring water content up to about 30 percent, and still further limitations of use are imposed by the degree of continuity of oil present in the system. capacitance cell output is inherently non-linear and, when other factors contribute, high water contents of 50 percent and over are difficult to measure with any accuracy. a most recent improvement in methods for monitoring flow in oil-water systems is the subject matter of u.s patent no. 4,080,837 issued march 28, 1978, in the name of alexander et al and entitled "sonic measurement of flow rate and water content of oil water streams". the present subject matter constitutes an improvement on the above-identified teachings through improvement of the method and apparatus to enable self-calibration by directly determining the velocity of sound of the water phase of-an oil-water mixture periodically as required to maintain accurate data readout. summary of the invention the present invention contemplates a method and apparatus for determining content data relative to the flowing oil-water system wherein the water phase of the flowing mixture is separately tested by sonic flowmeter to derive a more accurate water sonic velocity for use in final determination of the flow rate and water content of the flowing oil-water system. there is provided in a sonic velocity type of oil-water metering system, provision for separately testing sonic velocity in water only in said system with application of such sonic velocity data as a self-calibrating input to the device producing readout of individual oil and water flow data. the oil-water system water sonic velocity is periodically determined as required and input to the data determining stages thereby to maintain greater accuracy of the water cut determination and to accommodate any changes in the composition of water present in the flowing system. therefore, it is an object of the present invention to provide a water cut measurement instrument of the sonic velocity type that is self-calibrating and capable of accommodating changes in composition of water present in the system. it is also an object of the invention to provide a water cut measurement instrument having greater overall accuracy and, consequently, a greater number of useful applications. finally, it is an object of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 the embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive-property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows-:  claim 1. a method for self-calibrating a system for determining quantitative and volumetric data of an oil-water mixture flowing in a conduit, comprising the steps of:  providing in said conduit a metering section for  controlled entrapment of water only;  deriving by sonic flowmeter the speed of sonic  energy transmitted through said metering  section when containing water only; and  using the derived speed of sonic energy through  water to determine the quantitative and  volumetric data of the flowing oil-water  mixture.    claim 2. a method as set forth in claim 1 which further comprises:  offsetting said metering section below said  conduit so that stoppage of the oil  water mixture flow causes liquid separa  tion thereby to enhance water only pre  sence in said metering section.    claim 3. a method as set forth in claim 2 wherein said sonic flowmeter transmits and receives axially through said metering section.    claim 4. a method as set forth in claim 1 wherein said conduit is the liquid dump output from a two-phase separator tank wherein initial output flow of a dump is water only for a period of derivation of the speed of sonic energy.    claim 5. a method as set forth in claim 4 which further comprises offsetting said metering section below said conduit so that stoppage of the oil-water mixture flow causes liquid separation thereby to enhance water only presence in said metering section.      claim 6. a method as set forth in claim 5 wherein said sonic flowmeter transmits and receives axially through said metering section.    claim 7. a method as set forth in claim 1 which further comprises initially charging said metering section with water of said oil-water mixture for a duration to enable derivation of the speed of sonic energy therethrough.    claim 8. a method for   self-cåalibrating a    system for determining quantitative and volumetric data of an oil-water mixture flowing from the oil dump of a-three phase separator tank, comprising the steps of:  placing a water metering section on the water  dump of said   tankt     deriving by sonic flowmeter the speed of sonic  energy transmitted through said water  metering section; and  applying said derived speed of sonic energy  in water for determination of the quan  titative and volumetric data of the oil  water mixture flowing during oil dumps.    claim 9. a method as set forth in claim 8 comprising further the steps of:  placing a second metering section in the oil  dump conduit of said three phase separator  tank;  deriving by sonic flowmeter the speed of sonic  energy transmitted through said second  metering section;  determining volumetric data of the oil-water  mixture flowing through said second  metering section; and  totalizing the data derived for said water  metering section and said second metering  section to determine the water cut of the  total oil/water system.      claim 10. a method as set forth in claim 9 wherein said sonic flowmeters are aligned to transmit and receive axially through said water metering and second metering sections.    claim 11. a method as set forth in claim 10 wherein each of said water metering and second metering sections are laterally offset relative to the axis of their associated main flow conduits thereby to enhance liquid separation within the respective metering sections.    claim 12. in apparatus for determining quantitative and volumetric data of an oil-water mixture flowing in a conduit, the improvement comprising:  a metering section disposed in said conduit  laterally   offset¯from    the main axis of  said conduit;  sonic flowmeter means disposed generally axially  in said metering section and operative to  derive speed of sound of liquid flowing  therethrough; and  means for periodically stopping flow of liquid  through said metering section for a dura  tion sufficient to allow oil and water  separation.    claim 13. apparatus as set forth in claim 12 which is further characterized in that said metering section is laterally offset below a generally horizontal conduit.    claim 14. apparatus as set forth in claim 12 which is further characterized in that said metering section is laterally offset from a generally vertical conduit.    claim 15. apparatus as set forth in claim 13 which is further characterized in that said metering section is aligned at a slight angle relative to the axis of the conduit.    claim 16. in combination with a two-phase  separator tank having a dump conduit for outputting an oil water mixture, apparatus comprising:  a metering section disposed in said dump  conduit;  sonic flowmeter means disposed generally  axially in said metering section and  operative to derive speed of sound of  liquid flowing therethrough;  means for periodically stopping flow of liquid  through said metering section for a dura  tion sufficient to allow derivation of the  speed of sound of system water only; and  computation means receiving input data for speed  of sound of system water as well as oil  water mixture to generate output data for  volume of oil and water in the flowing  mixture per unit time.    claim 17. apparatus as set forth in claim 16 which is further characterized in that said metering section is laterally offset from said dump conduit to enhance the separation of oil and water during liquid flow stoppage.     claim 18. in combination with a three-phase separator tank having a water dump first conduit and an oil-water dump second conduit for outputting collected oil-water mixture, apparatus comprising:  a first metering section disposed in said  first conduit;  sonic flowmeter means disposed generally  axially in said first metering section  and operative to generate first speed of  sound data output for the system water  flowing therethrough;  a second metering section disposed in said  second conduit;  second sonic flowmeter means disposed generally  axially in said second metering section    and operative to generate second speed  of sound data for the oil-water system  flowing therethrough; and computation means receiving said first and second  speed of sound data to generate output indi  cation of the total volume of oil and water  flowing through said three-phase separator  tank.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
