<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0007425
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800206
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
C08F-10/00 <main>C08F-10/00</main> C08F-12/06 C08F-36/04 C08F-36/00 C08F-4/62 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
a process for producing a polymerisation catalyst and use of same for olefin polymerisation.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
phillips petroleum co us  <sep>phillips petroleum company<sep>phillips petroleum company5th and keelerbartlesville oklahoma 74004us<sep>phillips petroleum company<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
capshew charles edward<sep>capshew, charles edward<sep>capshew, charles edward388 s.e. fenway placebartlesville, oklahomaus<sep>capshew, charles edward<sep>capshew, charles edward388 s.e. fenway placebartlesville, oklahomaus<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a transition metal compound and a metal halide com­ pound selected from metal dihalide compounds and metal  hydroxyhalide compounds are chemically combined to form  a composition of matter.  the composition of matter is suitable  for use with an organometallic compound to produce an  active olefin polymerization catalyst.  exceptionally high  polymer yields are realized per gram of catalyst when the  catalyst is treated with a halide ion exchanging source and  used with an organometallic cocatalyst.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
catalytic composition and process to make and use it for olefin polymerization. background the invention relates to a composition of matter, a method of preparing same, catalyst, a method of producing the catalyst and a process of using the catalyst. in another aspect the invention relates to a particularly effective ethylene polymerization catalyst and process. in the production of polyolefins, such as for example polyethylene, polypropylene, ethylene-butene copolymers etc., an important aspect of the various processes and catalysts used to produce such polymers is the productivity. by productivity is meant the amount or yield of solid polymer that is obtained by employing a given quantity of catalyst. if the productivity is high enough then the amount of catalyst residues contained in the polymer is low enough that the presence of the catalyst residues does not significantly affect the properties of the polymer and the polymer does not require additional processing to remove the catalyst residues. as those skilled in the art are aware, removal of catalyst residues from polymer is an expensive process and it is very desirable to employ a catalyst which provides sufficient productivity so that catalyst residue removal is not necessary. in addition, high productivities ae desirable in to minimize catalyst costs. therefore it is desirable develop new and improved catalysts and polymerization processes which provide, improved polymer productivites. accordingly, an object of the invention is a catalyst. another object of the invention is a polymerize process for using the catalyst capable of providing it polymer productivities as compared to prior art catalyst another object of the invention is a catalyst are polymerization process in which the polymer produce catalyst residues in an amount so that ca alyst residue removal is unnecessary. summary in accordance with the invention a composition oz matter comprises the chemical combination cf = metal halide compound and a transition metal compound. further in accordance with the invention a method for producing the above composition is provided. further in accordance with the invention catalyst is provided which forms on mixing the above composition of matter as a first catalyst component and an organometallic compound as a second catalyst component. further, in accordance with the invention, at least polymerizable compound selected from aliphatic mono-l olef ins, conjugated diolefins and vinylaromatic compounds polymerized under polymerization conditions employing t:-¯ catalyst described above. in -a preferred embodiment catalyst is treated with a halide ion exchanging source of the polymerization reaction is carried out employir, organometallic cocatalyst. further in accordance with the invention. the above- described catalyst is prepared by mixing together a metal halide compound and a transition metal compound in w suitable solvent to produce a first catalyst component solution, the first catalyst component solution is heated, cooled and optionally filtered in order to remove any undissolved material; a second catalyst component comprising an organ- metallic compound is added to the above-described first catalyst component solution in a manner so as to avoid a significant temperature rise in the solution to produce a solid catalyst in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims   1.    a composition of matter formed by the chemical combination  optionally in an inert solvent of  a transition metal compound of a group   ivb    or vb transition  metal of the   ltendelcev    periodic   table,    the transition metal  being bonded to at least one atom of oxygen, nitrogen, and  sulfur, said oxygen, nitrogen and sulfur atoms in turn being    ended    to a carbon atom of a carbon containing radical, and  a metal dihalide of a group iia or group iib metal of the  mendeleev periodic table,  said composition of matter being soluble in a dry, essen  tially inert solvent.   2. a composition of matter according to claim 1 characterized  in that it has formed by the chemical   combination    of a  titanium tetrahydrocarbyloxide, and magnesium dichloride in  a hydrocarbon solvent.   a catalyst which forms on mixing a first catalyst component    -n;    a second c'atalyst component   comdrisinc,    an organometallic    compound    of a metal of group i, group ii or group iii of the  mendeleev periodic table, characterized in that said tirst  catalyst component is a composition as defined in claim 1  or 2.      a      x    catalyst according to claim 3 further comprising as a co  catalyst an organometallic compound of a metal of group i,  group ii or group iii of the mendeleev periodic table.     5. a catalyst according to claim 3 or 4 characterized in that  said first catalyst component is formed by mixing magnesium  dichloride and a compound selected from the group consisting  of titanium tetraethoxide and titanium tetra-n-butoxide, and  said second catalyst component is selected from the group  consisting of ethylaluminum dichloride, diethylaluminum  chloride, ethylaluminum sesquichloride and isobutylaluminum  dichloride.   6. a process for producing a polymer comprising contacting at  least one polymerizable compound selected from the group  consisting of aliphatic mono-l-olefins, conjugated diole-.    fins, vinylaromatic compounds and mixtures of any two or  more thereof under polymerization conditions with a catal  yst, characterized in that said catalyst is one as defined  in one of the claims 3 - 5.   7. a process according to claim 6 characterized in that the  polymerizable compound is selected from the compositions  a. comprising at least 90 weight percent aliphatic mono-l  olefin having from 2 to about 18 carbon atoms per mole  cule with the remainder of the polymerizable compound  selected from the group consisting of acyclic conjugated  dienes and vinylaromatic hydrocarbons,  b. comprising at least about 90 weight percent ethylene  with the remainder of the polymerizable compound selected  from the broup consisting of propylene, butene-l, butene  2, hexene-1, butadiene-1, 3, isoprene,   pentadiene-1,    3,  styrene   andd-methylstyrene,     c. consisting essentially of ethylene,  d. comprising a conjugated diolefin having from about 4 to  about 8 carbon atoms per molecule, and  7. (continued)  e.  comprising a vinylaromatic   compound    having from 8 to  14 carbon atoms per molecule and   1,    3-butadiene, iso  prene, 2-methyl-1, 3-butadiene, 1, 3-pentadiene, or  1,   3-octadiene.         b.    a process according to claim 6 or 7 characterized in that  the polymerization temperature is within a range of 500 c  to 1200 c and the partial pressure of the polymerizable  cornpcund is within the range of 0.5 mpa to 5.0 .0 mpa.   9. ; process for preparing a catalyst characterized by    ining    together a metal halide compound   and    a transition  metal compound in a suitable solvent to   produce    a first  catalyst component solution wherein the metal halide com  pound is a metal dihalide compound of a group iia or group    1ib    metal of the mendeleev periodic table, and the transi  tion metal compound is a compound of a transition metal of  group ivb and vb of the mendeleev periodic table and the  transition metal is bonded to at least one atom of oxygen,  nitrogen, and sulfur, and said oxygen, nitrogen and sulfur  atoms are in turn bonded to a carbon atom of a carbon con  aining radical;    heating    the first catalyst component solution; ;    '¯ìing    the first catalyst component solution after heating  and optionally filtering the first catalyst component solu  tion to remove any undissolved material from the cooled  first catalyst component solution;  adding a second catalyst component to the cooled first  catalyst component solution so as to avoid a significant  temperature rise in the solution to produce a solid catalyst  in the form of a slurry wit the hydrocarbon solvent wherein  the second catalyst component comprises an organometallic  compound wherein the metal is a metal of group i, group ii    9. (continued)  or group iii of the mendeleev periodic table;  separating the solid catalyst from the slurry;  washing the solid catalyst with a hydrocarbon compound;   and  drying the washed solid catalyst;  wherein all of the above steps are carried out in the essen  tial absence of air and water.   10. a process for preparing a catalyst according to claim 9  characterized in that the washed and dried solid catalyst  is treated with a halide ion exchanging source by mixing  together the washed and dried solid catalyst, the halide  ion exchanging source and a liquid hydrocarbon to produce  a slurry, and separating the solid catalyst from the liquid  hydrocarbon followed by washing and drying the solid  catalyst.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
