<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0009617
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800416
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
H03J-7/28 H04B-1/26 H03J-7/18 H03J-1/00 <main>H03J-5/00</main> H03J-5/02 H03J-1/04 H03J-5/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
circuit for controlling a receiving frequency and a channel display in a superheterodyne receiver.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
sanyo electric co jp<sep>tokyo sanyo electric co jp  <sep>sanyo electric co., ltd.<sep>tottori sanyo electric co., ltd.<sep>sanyo electric co., ltd.18, keihanhondori 2-chomemoriguchi-shi, osakajp<sep>tottori sanyo electric co., ltd.201 yoshikata tottori-shitottori 680jp<sep>sanyo electric co., ltd.<sep>tottori sanyo electric co., ltd.<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
sumi yasuaki<sep>sumi, yasuaki<sep>sumi, yasuaki128, mihagino 1-chometottori-shi tottori-kenjp<sep>sumi, yasuaki<sep>sumi, yasuaki128, mihagino 1-chometottori-shi tottori-kenjp<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a superheterodyne receiver employs as a local oscillator  a vco (125) included in a pll (115).  upon depression of a  station selecting switch (200), a pulse is generated and  counted by a trinary counter (311) and two decimal counters  (313, 315).  the count value in the trinary counter is deter­ mined to indicate the channel index.  the count value in the  two decimal counters is subjected to the first addition (320) of  "2" and the sum thereof is indicated as channel number data,  while the same is subjected to multiplication (321) by 3 and  the product thereof is subjected to the second addition (323)  of a numerical value corresponding to the lowest channel  frequency, whereupon the sum thereof is added in the third  addition (327) to the count value in the trinary counter and the  sum thereof is set in the pll, while the same is indicated as the  receiving frequency.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
superheterodyne receiver the present invention relates to a superheterodyne receiver. more specifically, the present invention relates to a superheterodyne receiver employing as a local oscillator a voltage controlled oscillator included in a phase locked loop, adapted to indicate a channel number and a channel index of a receiving channel. recently an electronic tuning apparatus has been employed in place of mechanical tuning apparatus in a superheterodyne receiver. such an electronic tuner usually employs a voltage controlled oscillator as a local oscillator. a phase locked loop including a voltage controlled oscillator has also been developed and such a voltage controlled oscillator has also been employed as a local oscillator of a superheterodyne receiver. a digital frequency display has also been proposed which displays in a digital manner the frequency of a broadcasting station now in reception by the use of the digital data based on the data available in a phase locked loop. typically such a digital frequency indication is made by the use of the numerals of four digits. in spite of the fact that the frequency of a broadcasting station now in reception is displayed with accuracy by a digital frequency display, a problem is encountered by a user that it in often difficult for him to correctly memorize the frequencies of a large number of broadcasting stations. in order to avoid such difficulty, it has been proposed that in a given frequency band, such as an fm band, channel numbers are allotted to the respective broadcasting stations so that a desired broadcasting station can be identified by a corresponding channel number of a decreased number of digits. on the other hand, historically in europe a broadcasting standard was employed in the fm band until before 1962 in which 56 broadcasting frequencies were determined with the interval frequency of 300 khz between two adjacent broadcasting frequencies. however, thereafter the standard was revised to a new one in which 168 fm broadcasting frequencies were determined with the interval frequency of 100 krz between two adjacent broadcasting frequencies. particularly, the broadcasting frequencies allotted after 1962 were additionally allotted such that two additional broadcasting frequencies come in the vicinity of the broadcasting frequency allotted before 1962. therefore, one of the broadcasting frequencies allotted after 1962 is 100 krz lower than the broadcasting frequency allotted before 1962 and the other of the broadcasting frequency allotted after 1962 is 100 khz higher.than the broadcasting frequency allotted before 1962. nevertheless, as far as the channel number indication is concerned, the broadcasting frequencies allotted after 1962 have been identified by the channel numbers asscociated with the channel allotted before 1962, but with an additional channel index. for example, the broadcasting frequency of 93.3. nrz 0 is identified as channel no. 21 or channel no. 21 in the above described channel indication, wherein the notation "o" indicates that the broadcasting frequency of 93.3 mhz is a broadcasting frequency allotted before 1962. on the other hand, the frequency of 93.2 mhz is identified as channel no. 21 ,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
    fatent claims      1. a superheterodyne receiver including a local oscillator  (125) with varyable frequency, control means (123, 119) for  controlling the frequency of said oscillator and channel display means (400) for displaying a channel number related to the  frequency of the local oscillator, characterized in that channel number data setting means (300) are provided for setting channel number   data.controlling    the channel number to be displayed, and  that the control means   (123 119)    for the local oscillator (125)  are controlled by signals converted from said set channel number  data.    2. a   superheterpdyne    receiver in accordance with claim 1,  characterized in that said channel number data setting means  (300) comprises  specified number presetting means (319) for presetting a  specified number,  channel number associated numerical value setting means (200,  301 to 315) for setting a numerical value associated with said  channel number, and  operation means (320) responsive to said preset specified number and said numerical value for making an operation for providing said data concerning a channel number.    3. a superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim 2, characterized in that said numerical value setting means   (200,    301 to 305) comprises manual operable means (200) for setting said channel number associated numerical value, channel number setting signal providing means (301 to 309) operatively coupled to said manual operable means for providing a  signal for setting said channel number responsive to manual operation of said manual operable means, and counting means (311 to 315) for counting the number of said  signal for setting said channel number.   4. a superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim   3,    characterized in that said superheterodyne receiver is adapted for use in an environment wherein channel numbers have been allotted such that each channel number includes a plurality (m) of independent channels the frequencies of which are different, whereby each said channel number represents a channel group including the plurality (m) of channels and that said counting means comprises an m-nary counter (311) corresponding to said plurality (m) number of the channels in one channel group, and said superheterodyne receiver further comprises channel index display means (401) for displaying channel indexes for indentifiying said plurality (m) of independent channels included in said one channel group represented by said one channel number,  and channel index display control means (317) responsive to the count value in said m-nary counter for controlling said channel index display means for displaying a corresponding one channel index.   5. a superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim 2, characterized in that said channel numbers have been allotted as a series of numbers in one frequency band, said specified number preset in said presetting means is seleoted such that a predetermined channel at the extremity of said frequency band is rendered unreceivable when the frequency of said local oscillation signal is varied by said local oscillation frequency varying means.   6. a superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim 5, characterized in that said specified number is selected such that a predetermined channel at the lowest frequency end portion of said frequency band is rendered unreceivable, and  said operation means comprises addition means   (320)- for    making additicn of said specified number preset in said specified number presetting means and said channel number associated numerical value in said channel number associated numerical value setting means.   7. a superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim 6, characterized in that said specified number is "2".   8. a superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim 4, characterized in that said plurality (m) is "3".   9. a superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim 1, characterized in that said superheterodyne receiver further comprises frequency data converting means (321 to 327) for converting said channel number data into frequency data concerning a corresponding receiving frequency, and frequency display means (500) responsive to said frequency data for displaying said corresponding receiving frequency.   10. a superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim 9, characterized in that said superheterodyne receiver is adapted for use in an environment wherein said channel numbers have been allotted as a series of the channel numbers in a given frequency band such that one channel number stands for a plurality (m) of independent channels commonly grouped in said one channel number, and that said channel number data setting means comprises manual operable means   (200) for    setting a channel number, channel number setting signal providing means (301 to 309) operatively coupled to said manual operable means for providing a signal for setting said channel number responsive to manual operation of said manual operable means, and counting means (311 to 315) for counting the number of said  signal for setting said channel number,  and that said frequency data convertin means comprises multiplication means (321) for multiplying said data concerning a channel number set in said channel number data setting means by the factor commensurate with said plurality (m), first addition means (323) for adding data associated   with'    the frequency of a channel at one extremity of said frequency band to the product obtained by said multiplication means, and second addition means (327) for adding the count value in said counting means to the sum of said first addition'means.   11. a superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim   19,    characterized in that said channel number display means and said frequency display means are structured by a common dieplay (200), and said superheterodyne receiver further comprises display switching means (205, 207) for selectively providing to said common display as display data said data concerning the channel number or said data concerning the receiving frequency.    12. a superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim 11, characterized in that said common display comprises a decimal point display portion for displaying said data concerning the receiving frequency and a channel index display portion (701+,   701-)    for making display for eepoifying one of said plurality (m) of channels grouped in said one channel number, and said superheterodyne receiver further comprises timing signal generating means (605) for generating timing signals, and enabling means (607 to 613, 615, 617) responsive to said timing signals for enabling said decimal point display portion and said channel index display portion at different timing.   13. a superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim 12, characterized in that said superheterodyne receiver further comprises   common connecting means (613) for connecting said decimal point display portion and said channel index display portion to a common signal line, and synchronizing means (607 to 619) for controlling said enabling means for synchronizing enabling of said decimal point display portion and enabling of said channel index display portion with said different timing signals, respectively.   14. a superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim 13, characterized in that said enabling means comprises selecting signal generating means (601, 603) for generating a selecting signal for selecting said decimal point display portion and a selecting signal for selecting said channel index display portion, and said synchronizing means comprises signal converting means (607 to 613) for converting said selecting signal for selecting said decimal point display portion and said selecting signal for selecting said channel index portion into driving signals synchronized with said different timing signals, respectively, and display control means (613, 615 to 619) responsive to said driving signals of said signal converting means for controlling said decimal point display portion and   saidchannel    index display portion.   15. a superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim 1, characterized in that said local oscillating means comprises voltage controlled oscillating means, and said   contsm    signal converting means comprises frequency division ratio converting means (321 to327) for converting said data concerning a channel number set in said channel number data setting means into data concerning a frequency division ratio, and that said superheterodyne receiver further comprises a phase   locked    loop (115) including said voltage controlled oscillating means   (125), said phase locked loop including programmable frequency dividing   means. ('123),    said data concerning a frequency division ratio obtained from said frequency division ratio converting means being applied to said programmable frequency dividing means.   16. a superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim 1, characterized in that said local oscillating means comprises voltage controlled oscillating means, analog voltage converting means for converting said data concerning a channel number set in said channel number data setting means into an analog voltage associated therewith, and means for supplying said analog voltage to said controlled oscillating means as a control voltage.   17. a superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim 3, characterized in that said channel number setting signal providing means comprises variation causing means for causing said signal for setting the channel number to automatically vary responsive to manual operation of said manual operable means, and said superheterodyne receiver further comprises tuning state representing signal providing means (107) for providing a signal representing a tuning state of said superheterodyne receiver, and variation stopping means (303) responsive to said tuning state representing signal for stopping said automatic variation of said setting signal obtained by said channel number setting signal providing means.   18. a method for controlling a receiving frequency and a channel display in a superheterodyne receiver including local oscillator with variable frequency, control means for controlling the frequency of said oscillator and channel display means for displaying a channel number corresponding to said receiving frequency, characterized in that said method comprises the steps of  setting channel number data controlling the channel number to be displayed, controlling said control means for the local oscillator by signals converted from sais set channel number data, and displaying said channel number responsive to said channel number data.   19. a method for controlling a receiving frequency and a channel display in a superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim 18, characterized in that said step of setting data concerning channel number comprises the steps of presetting a specified number, setting a numerical value associated with said channel number, and making a arithmetic operation with respect to said preset specified number and said set channel number associated numerical value for providing said data concerning a channel number.   20. a method for controlling a receiving frequency and a channel display in a superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim 19, characterized in that said step of setting said channel number associated numerical value comprises the steps of manually setting said channel number associated numerical value, providing a signal for setting said channel number responsive to said manual setting of said channel number associated numerical value, and counting the number of said signal for setting said channel number.   21. a method for controlling a receiving frequency and a channel display in a superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim 20, which is adapted for use in an environment   whre-    in channel numbers have been allotted such that each channel number includes a plurality (m) of independent channels the  frequencies of which are different, whereby said each channel number represents a channel group including the plurality (m) of channels, characterized in that said counting step comprises the step for making the counting operation in an m-nary counting manner corresponding to said plurality (m) number of the channels in one channel group, and said method further comprises the steps of displaying channel indexes for identifiying said plurality (m) of independent channels included in said one channel group represented by said one channel number,  and controlling said channel index displaying step for displaying a corresponding one channel index.   22. a method for controlling a receiving frequency and a channel display in accordance with a superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim 19, characterized in that said channel numbers have been allotted as a series of numbers in one frequency band, said specified number is selected such that a predetermined channel at the extremity of said frequency band is rendered unreceivable when the frequency of said local oscillation signal is varied by said variation of the frequency of said local oscillation signal.    23. a method for controlling a receiving frequency and a   channel    display in a superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim 22, characterized in that said specified number is selected such that a predetermined channel at the lowest frequency end portion of said frequency band is rendered unreceivable, and said arithmetic operation step comprises the step of making addition of'said specified number and said channel number associated numerical value.   24. a method for controlling a receiving frequency and a channel display in accordance with claim 17, characterized in   that said method further comprises the steps of converting said data concerning a channel number into data concerning a corresponding receiving frequency, and displaying said corresponding receiving frequency.   25.   a    method for controlling a receiving frequency and a channel display in a superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim 19, which is adapted for use in an environment wherein said channel numbers have been allotted as a series of the channel numbers in a given frequency band such that one channel number stands for a plurality (m) of independent channels commonly grouped in said one channel number, characterized in that said channel number data setting step comprises the steps of manually setting a channel number, providing a signal for setting said channel number responsive to manual setting of said channel number, and counting the number of said signal for setting said channel number,  and said frequency data converting step comprises multiplying step for multiplying said data concerning a channel number by the factor commensurate with said plurality (m), first adding step for adding data associated with the frequency of a channel at one extremity of said frequency band to the product obtained by said multiplaying step, and second   addingstep    for adding the count value by said counting step to the sum of said first adding step.   26. a method for controlling a receiving frequency and a channel display in a superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim 25, characterized in that said channel number displaying step and said frequency displaying step are performed by the use of a common display, and said method further comprises the step of selectively providing to said common display as display data said data concerning the channel number or said data   concerning    the receiving frequency.     27. a method for controlling a receiving frequency and a channel display in a superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim 26, characterized in that said common display comprises a decimal point display portion for displaying said data concerning the receiving frequency and a channel index display portion for making display for specifying one of said plurality (m) of  channels grouped in said one channel number and said method  further comprises the steps of generating timing signals, and  enabling said decimal point display portion and said channel  index portion responsive to said timing signals at different timing.    28. a method for controlling a receiving frequency and a  channel display in a superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim 27, characterized in that said method further comprisee the steps of  connecting said decimal point display portion and said channel  index display portion to a common signal line, and  synchronizing said enabling step with said different timing  signals.   29. a method for controlling a receiving frequency and a channel display in a superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim 28, characterized in that said enabling step comprising the step of generating a selecting signal for selecting said decimal point  display portion and a selecting signal for selecting said  channel index display portion, and said synchronizing step  comprises the steps of  converting said   selectingsignal    for selecting said decimal point  display portion and said selecting signal for selecting said  channel index display portion into driving signals synchronized    'with    different timing signals, respectively, and  controlling said decimal point display portion and said channel  index display portion responsive to said converted driving signals synchronized with said different timing signals, respectively.    30. a method for controlling a receiving frequency and a  channel display in a superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim 18, characterized in that said local oscillating means comprises voltage controlled oscillating means, said controll signal converting means comprises frequency division ratio converting means for converting said data concerning a channel number into data concerning a frequency division ratio, and said superheterodyne receiver further comprises a phase lockes loop including said voltage controlled oscillating means,  said phase locked loop including a programmable frequency  dividing means, sais data concerning a frequency division ratio being applied to said programmable frequency dividing means.   31. a method for controlling a receiving frequency and a channel display in a superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim 18,characterized in that said local oscillating means comprises voltage controlled oscillating means, and said method further comprises the step of  converting said channel number data into a analog voltage associated therewith, and supplying said analog voltage to said voltage controlled oscillating means as a control voltage.    32. a method for controlling a receiving frequency and a channel display in a superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim 20, said channel number setting signal providing step comprises the step of genrating setting signals to cause sais signals for setting the channel number to automatically vary responsive to manual setting of said channel number associated numerical value, and said method further comprises the steps of  providing a signal representing a tuning state by said superheterodyne receiver, and stopping said automatic variation of said setting signal obtained by said channel number setting providing step responsive to said tuning state representing signal.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
