<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0005377
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19791114
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
H03L-7/02 A61C-1/00 A61C-1/02 A61C-1/07 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
dental handpiece and oscillating circuit for driving a transducer assembly.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
litton industrial productsus<sep>litton industrial products inc.<sep>litton industrial products inc.360 north crescent drivebeverly hills california 90210us<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
cranston dale ous<sep>cranston, dale o.<sep>cranston, dale o.rt. 2lawrence kansasus<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a dental handpiece is disclosed with a transducer  assembly for holding a work tool which is caused to  vibrate at substantially a resonant frequency by a variable  frequency oscillator (20).  the oscillator (20) sweeps  through a spectrum of frequencies under control of oscillator  control means (24).  a maximum in the current flow  through the transducer assembly occurs at a resonant  frequency and is detected by maximum detecting means  (22) which then generates a latch signal to stop the  oscillator at substantially that resonant frequency.  hence  the oscillator is correlated to the resonant frequency of  the assembly, and subsequent changes in the loading  conditions on the assembly do not affect the oscillator  frequency.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
dental hand pierce the present invention relates to a dental handpiece wherein a dental work tool held by a transducer assembly is caused to vibrate by application of an electrical signal from e variable frequency oscillator. th, frequency of vibration of the tool is controlled by oscillator control means. as is nown such dental hand pieces work most efficiently, i.e. maximum vibration amplitude is obtained, wnen the vibration frequency is at the resonant frequency of the hand piece. therefore in order to obtain the optimum amplitude of vibration, the frequency of the electrical oscillations within the transducer assembly must be correlated to the natural frequency of vibration of the mechanical portion of the system, i.e. of the hand piece. known ways of effecting such correlation include flat described in u.s. patent no 2897578 which provided for the adjustment of the frequency of the oscillator either manually by an operator, or automatically uncer the control of a feedback signal which varies witn the impedance of the transducer assembly, or in accordance sni.h a feedback signal obtained from a pickup such as a piezo-electrlc crystal which is coupled to the vibration dental work tool. another way is described in u.s. patent no 3629726 which discloses an oscillator an an oscillator control means wherein a feedback voltage corresponding to the difference between the current through the transducer and the voltage across the transducer is utilised. the oscillator control means receives feedback signals which are representative of both the voltaae across and the current through the transducer coil drivingiand the two feedback signals are combined vectorially to lock the oscillator frequency to the resonant frequency of the transducer. these known systems continually compensate for oscillator frequency shifts and changes in the loading of the transducer assembly, for example as occurs when the dental work tool is applied to a tooth, and can consequently cause damage to teeth being treated by exerting excessive pressure. additional circuits are therefore often used to limit the current supplied to the transducer under loaded conditions. according to the present there is provided a dental handpiece wherein the oscillator control means is arranged to sweep the oscillator through a sectr of frequencies and wherein there is provided means for detecting a maximum in the current flow in the transducer assembly as the oscillator sweeps to generate a late signal stopping the oscillator at substantially the frequency producing the detected maximum current floury through the transducer assembly. this frequency is substantially a resonant frequency of the assembly. it can be ser that a dental handpiece according to the present invention automatically finds te natural frequency of vibration of a transduce assembly hol a dental work tool, and locks the oscillator onto that frequency. a handpiece according to the present invention is particularly advantageous because retuning occurs each time the handpiece is used. this compensates for variations in the mechanical characteristics of the vibrating assembly and tne dental tool, for example those which develop with use of the handpiece, or which exis
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:   1. a dental handpiece comprising a transducer assembly for holding a work tool, a variable frequency oscillator (20) operable to generate an electrical signal to cause said tool to vibrate, and oscillator control means (24) for controlling the frequency of the tool, characterised in that the oscillator control means (24) is arranged to sweep said oscillator (20) through a spectrum of frequencies, and there is provided means (22) for detecting a maximum in the current flow in the trans   duder    assembly as said oscillator (20) sweeps, to generate   latch    signal to stop said oscillator (20) at   substant-    ially the frequency producing the detected maximum current flow through said transducer assembly, which   frequency    substantially a resonant frequency of the assembly.       a a circuit for driving a transducer assembly at    substantially a resonant frequency of the assembly,   sic    circuit comprising a variable frequency oscillator (20) tne frequency of   which    is controlled by oscillator control means (24), characterised in that the oscillator control means (24) is arranged to sweep the oscillator (20) through a spectrum of frequencies, and there is provided means (22) for detecting a maximum in the current flow in the transducer assembly as sid   oscillator    (20) sweeps,  to generate a   late    signal to stop said oscillator (20) at   substantially    the   frequency      produ-n    tne detected maximum current flow through said transduce assembly,   which      frequency    is   substantial1y    a resonant   frequency    of the   assembly.      3. a dental   handtiece    according to claim 1 or a circuit according to claim   2    characterised in that said maximum   detecting    means (22) comprises means (202b and c5) for storing a signal   reoresentative    of the largest detected  value of the current flow through said transducer assembly, and means   (2c2-)    for comparing a signal representative of  the instantaneous value of the current flow   ith    the  stored largest value signal to generate said latch  signal when the instantaneous value becomes less than the  stored largest value.    4. a dental handpiece or a circuit according to  claim 3 characterised in that the storing means comprises  an amplifier (202b) and a capacitor (c6), said amplifier  having an inverting and a   non-inverting    input, one of    which    inputs is coupled to receive a signal representative     of the instantaneous value of the current flow through @ the     transducer assembly, the capacitor being connected between  the other input and a reference potential,  and there is  provided a unidirectional flow device   (23)      connected     between said other   input    and the output of tne amplif  so that when the stored value of the current flow throug  the transducer assembly does   nct    exceed the   instantaneous     value of the current   flow    through the transducer assembly,  the unidirectional flow device (d3) provides a charging  path for the capacitor   (6).       s. a dental handpiece or a circuit according to   claim    3 or claim 4 characterised in that the comparing  means comprises   a    bistable amplifier (202c) having an  inverting and a non-inverting input, one of which   inputs     is coupled to receive a signal representative of the  instantaneous value of the current flow through the  transducer assembly, the other input of which is   coutec     to the storing means so as to receive asignal represent-  ative of the stored value of the current flow   through     the transducer assembly, and wherein the output of the  bistable amplifier is coupled to control the oscillator  control means (24).     6. a dental handpiece according to any one of claims 1 and 3 to 5 or a circuit according to any one of claim 2 to 5 characterised in that the oscillator control means (24) comprises an amplifier (408) connected as an integrator so as to generate an oscillator control signal having an amplitude which varies proportionally with time causing said oscillator (20) to sweep, said integrator being responsive to said latch signal to stop integrating so as to hold the oscillator substantially at said resonant frequency.   7. a dental handpiece according to any one of claims   and    3 to 6, or a circuit according to any one of claims 2 to 6 characterised in that there is provided a latch circuit (18) for generating said latch signal, said latch   circuit    being arranged to isolate said oscillator   (-)    from said maximum detecting means (22) after said   latcn    signal has been generated.       8.    a dental handpiece or a circuit according to claim 7 characterised in that operation starting and stopping means are provided for resetting said latch circuit (18) and said oscillator control means (24) so that at the start of each   oration    said oscillator control means is operable to recommence sweeping said oscillator   through t'e    spectrum of frequencies.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
