<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0012198
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800625
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
C07F-5/04 C07C-33/03 <main>C07C-29/00</main> C07C-29/00 C07C-29/09 C07C-29/12 C07C-29/56 C07C-29/70 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
allylic rearrangement process.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
scm corpus<sep>scm corporation<sep>scm corporation900 union commerce buildingcleveland, ohio 44115us<sep>scm corporation<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
kane bernard james<sep>kane, bernard james<sep>kane, bernard james333 ocean boulevardatlantic beach, florida 32233us<sep>kane, bernard james<sep>kane, bernard james333 ocean boulevardatlantic beach, florida 32233us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a process for allylic rearrangement, particularly terpenoid  allylic rearrangement, utilizing certain acid forming  metals to form an ester or alcoholate (alcohologen) of the  allylic alcohol to be rearranged, isomerizing and cleaving  the alcohologen in the presence of a transition metal compound  catalyst and recovering the rearranged alcohol.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
allylic rearrangement process related application this application is a continuation-in-part of my copending application serial no. 966,635 filed 5 december 1978. background and prior art me instant invention relates to a process for enhancing allylic rearrangement beyond the equilibrium between qn allylic primary or secondary alcohol and an allylic teriary alcohol that is attainable in the liquid phase rearrangement of an allylic tertiary alcohol to an allylic primary or secondary alcohol at modest temperature (generally between 500 and 2500c and advantageously between 1000 and 2000c) in the presence of a catalyst comprising a metal of group va, via, or viia of the periodic table of mendeleev. such are the liquid phase catalytic allylic tertiary alcohol isomerization conditions referred to herein, and they are taught in u. s. patent 3,925,485 (chabardes et al) and again in u. s. patent 4,006,193 (ninagawa et al). the teachings of both these patents are incorporated herein by reference. charbardes et al exemplify use of temperatures such as 1500, 1600, and 1610c to so rearrange linalool into geraniol and nerol. the equilibrium obtained in such operation is roughly 30% of these primary alcohols and 70% of the tertiary alcohol. nerol is a geometric isomer of geraniol. brief summary of the invention in the instant process one forms an isomerization reaction mixture containing an allyic tertiary nalcahologen" (an alcohologen being a compound containing no catalyst metal, but one that is cleavable to yield the alcohol to which it corresponds). one isomerises said allylic tertiary alcohologen under liquid phase catalytic allylic tertiary alcohol isomerization conditions (broadly those shown by chabardes et al, above, with respect to temperature and catalyst) until the allylic radicals or residues, including those of free allylic alcohols, if present, remaining in the mixture are richer in allylic primary or secondary conformation than in allylic tertiary conformation -- in other words the isomerization of such residues surpasses the customary equilibrium between the corresponding allylic alcohols obtainable by use of the processes of either chabardes et al or ninagawa et al. making the alcohologen also enables one to operate advantageously under atmospheric pressure at slightly higher temperatures (e.g. 1600 - 1800 for geraniol-nerol from linalool) than those exemplified by chabardes et al. an attendant advantage is speed in addition to completeness of reaction. while the instant invention should by no means be construed only as a liquid phase catalytic process for making allylic primary or secondary alcohols from allylic tertiary alcohols, such products are perhaps the ones most readily marketable in quantity. one might characterize the instant invention as the forming of allylic alcohologens prior to or during the liquid phase catalytic isomerization of the allylic tertiary moieties of the various allylic compounds present into primary of secondary allylic moieties. in one principal aspect of this invention allylic tertiary alcohologen (such as a linalyl isobutyl borate) is preformed, then this material is subjected to the catalytic liquid phase isomerization. in such isomerization free tertiary alcohol does not appear to exert any significant effect, and, if it
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
what is claimed is:   1. a process for enhancing allylic rearrangement beyond the equilibrium attainable under like processing conditions in the catalytic isomerization of an allylic tertiary alcohol into allylic primary or secondary alcohol characterized by forming allylic tertiary alcohologen and isomerizing said tertiary allylic alcohologen by subjecting it to liquid phase catalytic allylic tertiary alcohol isomerization conditions in the presence of a catalytic amount of a transition metal compound wherein the   rental    is selected from group v, vi or vii of the periodic table until the extent of said equilibrium is surpassed with respect to resulting allylic primary or secondary residues, said allylic tertiary alcohologen being an ester or alcoholate of an element in group iii or iv of the periodic table.   2. the process of claim 1 wherein said tertiary   ailylic    alcohologen has been preformed prior to said isomerizing, and at least one of its allylic  residues has tertiary conformation.    5 december 1978 3. the process of claim 2 wherein all of said allylic resideus of said tertiary allylic alcohologen are tertiary allylic residues.    5 december 1978 4. the process of claim 3 wherein allylic alcohologens remaining at the end of said isomerizing are decomposed to yield allylic alcohols.    5 december 1978 5. the process of claim 1 wherein said tertiary allylic alcohologen is formed in said reaction mixture by a collateral reaction that is concurrent with the isomerizing of said alcohologen.    5   decaiber    1978 6. the process of claim 1 wherein said allylic alcohologens are hydrolysable esters.    5 december 1978 7. the process of claim 6 wherein said esters are allylic borates. 5 december 1978 8. the process of claim 7 further characterized in that said borates are formed by transesterification of a borate whose alkanol moeity, when liberated, has a boiling point below that of the allylic alcohols cleavable from the allylic alcohologens present.    5 december 1978  9. the process of claim 8 wherein said alkyl borate is cleavable into primary and/or secondary alkanol.   10. the process of claim 1 wherein the tertiary allylic alcohologen is a linaloologen, and the allylic alcohologens formed therefrom are geraniologenic and nerologenic.   11. the process of claim 10 wherein said linaloologen is formed from a butyl borate.   12. the process of claim 11 wherein said butyl borate comprises an isobutyl borate.   13. catalytic liquid phase isomerization of allylic tertiary alcohol into allylic primary or secondary alcohol under catalytic liquid phase allylic tertiary alcohol isomerization conditions characterized by converting allylic alcohol in the presence of a catalytic amount of a transition metal compound wherein the metal is selected from group v, vi and vii of the periodic table present during said isomerization into alcohologens, said alcohologen being an ester of alcoholate of an element in group iii or iv of the periodic table.     14. a process for preparing an allylic alcohol of one degree from a corresponding allylic alcohol of different degree characterized by forming an isomerizable reaction mixture of allylic alcohologen of said allylic alcohol of said different degree and a nonallylic alcohol having a vapor pressure different from either said allylic alcohol   oi    said one degree or said allylic alcohol of said   different    degree, and isomerizing said allylic alcohologen of said allylic alcohol of said different degree by subjecting it to a liquid phase rearrangement reaction in the presence of transition metal compound catalyst at a temperature   sufficiently    high to distill off one of said nonallylic alcohol and said allylic alcohol of said one degree,  said alcohologen being an ester or alcoholate of an element in group iii or iv of the periodic table.      15.    a process for preparing a more volatile allylic alcohol of higher degree from less volatile allylic alcohol of lower degree characterized by forming an isomerizable reaction fixture of allylic alcohologen of said lower degree allylic alcohol and a nonallylic alcohol having a vapor pressure below that of the more volatile allylic alcohol of higher degree, and isomerizing said allylic alcohologen of lower degree by subjecting it to liquid phase rearrangement reaction in the presence of a transition metal compound catalyst  at a temperature sufficiently high to distill off said more volatile allylic alcohol of higher degree, said alcohologen being an ester or alcoholate of an element in group iii or iv of the periodic table.    16. a process as defined in claim 15 wherein the allylic alcohol of higher degree is a tertiary allylic alcohol.   17. a process as defined in claim 16 wherein the tertiary allylic alcohol is linalool.   18. a process as defined in claim 17 wherein the alcohologen of lower degree is an alcohologen selected from nerol, geraniol and mixtures of nerol and geraniol.   19. a process as defined in claim 18 wherein the alcohologen is a hydrolyzable ester.   20. a process as defined in claim 19 wherein the hydrolyzable ester comprises a borate ester of the selected alcohologen.   21. a process as defined in claim 15 wherein the reaction is carried out at a sub-atmospheric pressure and at a temperature of from about   14o0c.    to about   1800c.     
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
