<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0012165
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800625
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
G01S-15/89 A61B-8/00 G01S-15/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
method and system for ultrasonic examination.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
picker corpus<sep>picker corporation <sep>picker corporation595 miner roadcleveland, ohio 44143us   <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
adams darwin pus<sep>bernardi richard bus<sep>adams, darwin p.<sep>bernardi, richard b.<sep>adams, darwin p.680 tanner marsh roadguilford connecticut 06472us<sep>bernardi, richard b.101 patton drivecheshire connecticut 06410us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
the system includes a variable aperture transducer  unit having a linear array of ultrasonic transducer elements,  which are subdivided into groups.  each group of trans­ ducer elements, during echo reception, defines a distance  dependent reception sensitivity pattern having a near field  and a far field which meet in a transition zone.  reception  resolution is best in the transition zone.  the distance of the  transition zone from the transducer unit is a function of  the size of the variable aperture, which size is defined by  the number of transducer elements applied for reception  at a given time.  to take advantage of this phenomenon,  the system also includes dynamic aperture control circu­ itry for expanding the transducer unit aperture with time  during echo reception by successively adding adjacent  transducer elements to the receiving group causing the  high resolution transition reception zone to recede into the  subject generally coincident with an ultrasonic energy  burst.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
method and system for ultrasonic examination this invention relates to a method and system for ultrasonic examination. such systems have been applied in several areas of diagnostic medicine. in particular, real time cross-sectional images of internal body structure can be obtained by the use of electronically scanned linear transducer arrays for propagating ultrasonic energy into a patient and detecting and processing resulting echoes from within his body. such systems incorporate a transducer unit consisting of a linear array of small rectangular ultrasonic transducer elements. the elements are arranged in a row with substantially so- planar emission faces and parallel axes of radiation. pulser circuitry is provided to actuate the transducer elements to produce incident ultrasonic energy in a predetermined sequence. the sequence is such that the array emits a succession of ultrasonic energy bursts along each of a succession of parallel transmission paths extending outwardly from different locations along the array. in this manner, the transducer array is caused to "scan" the patient with ultrasonic energy. such a real time ultrasonic system can produced two di- mensional images of internal subject structure. one coordinate of each image point is provided by the location of the propagation path of the resultant ultrasonic energy burst. the other co ordinate is provided by information derived from the time lapse between the production of the ultrasonic burst and the return of corresponding ultrasonic echoes from interfaces between areas of body tissues having differing accoustical impedance characteristics. in some systems, the transducers are individually pulsed sequentially along the length of the array to scan an image. a more advanced technique teaches pulsing of groups of elements substantially simultaneously, in a phase delayed relation, to produce a more sharply focused ultrasonic beam for each pulse-echo acoustic line. ultrasonic energy travels outwardly from a transducer in a beam configuration having a particular geometry which is related to the shape of the transducer. with a flat transducer, that geometry consists of a generally nondivergent portion, relatively near the transducer and called the "near field" and a more divergent portion of the beam extending outwardly from the outer extremity of the near field. which is called the 'far field." the near and far fields meet in a so called "transition" zone. this phenomenon is also analogously applicable with respect to ultrasonic echoes from within the subject returning to the transducer for reception. the transmission and reception geometry is illustrated graphically in figure 1. a transducer element e has a longitudinal dimension d. when actuated, the element e produces an incident ultrasonic beam having a geometrical configuration, generally illustrated by the broken lines. including a near field n and a far field f. in the near field, the beam is relatively nondivergent. the near and far fields meet in the transition zone t, centered at a distance x' from the element e. the geometry shown in fig. 1 applies, as mentioned, not only to incident ultrasonic energy produced by the transducer element e, but also describes the distance related reception
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims  1. an ultrasonic examination method, characterized by the steps of: directing an incident burst of ultrasonic energy into a subject, employing a variable aperture ultrasonic transducer unit for receiving ultrasonic echoes caused by the incident burst; adjusting the variable aperture of the transducer unit to maintain the transition zone between the near and far fields of the reception pattern of the transducer unit substantially coincident with the recession of incident ultrasonic energy into the subject, and employing received ultrasonic echoes for producing a visual representation of internal subject structure.    2. the method of claim 1, characterized by the steps of: actuating a sequence of linearly disposed ultrasonic transducer elements in a transmit mode for firing incident bursts of ultrasonic energy into the subject from different locations; causing groups of the transducer elements to receive, in a receive mode, echoes produced by corresponding incident bursts, each element group defining a particular reception pattern having a near field and a far field intersecting at the transition zone which has maximum reception resolution, the location of said transition zone being a function of    tie cumulative    longitudinal dimension of the transducer element receiving group:  and varying the longitudinal dimension of each receiving group of transducer elements during its operation in said receive mode for causing the transition region of the reception pattern to approximately track the recession of the corresponding incident ultrasonic burst into the subject.    3. the method of claim 3, characterized in that said varying step comprises: expanding the longitudinal dimension of each receiving transducer element group during the recession of said corresponding incident burst by successively adding adjacent transducer elements to said receiving group during its operation in the receive mode.    4. the method of claim 3, characterized in that said varying step further comprises: adding said adjacent transducer elements to said receiving group at a rate which approximately maintains the ef  fective    length of said receiving group of transducer elements at a value   represonted    by the expression   2 xl,    where l is the wavelength of the ultrasonic energy in the subject and x is the instantaneous distance   do    a wavefront of the corresponding receding incident burst from the  transducer array.    5. the method of claim 1; characterized by the steps   of:    firing the incident ultrasonic energy burst into the subject from a multi-element transducer array applying elements of the transducer array to receive ultrasonic echoes from the incident burst in a receive mode, the transducer elements defining a reception pattern having a near field and a far field defining the transition zone whose location is a function of the number of transducer elements applied for receiving; and during the receive mode, varying the number of transducer elements applied for receiving echoes for causing the transition zone to recede into the subject at an overall rate approximately equal to the acoustic velocity of the ultrasonic energy in the subject.    6. an ultrasonic examination system, characterized by: a variable aperture ultrasonic transducer unit for directing an incident burst of ultrasonic energy into a subject and detecting ultrasonic echoes caused by the incident burst; circuitry for adjusting the variable aperture of the transducer unit during reception of ultrasonic echoes to maintain the transition zone between the near and far fields of the reception pattern of the transducer unit substantially coincident with the recession of incident ultrasonic energy into the subject, and imaging display means for employing received ultrasonic echoes for producing a visual representation of internal subject structure.    7. the system of claim 6, characterized in that the adjusting circuitry comprises at least one field effect transistor switch and circuitry for providing a variable control voltage to said field effect transistor, for incremental adjustments of the variable aperture of the transducer unit gradually over a time at least one microsecond.    8. the system of claim 6, characterized in that the transducer unit comprises a linear array of ultrasonic transducer elements pulser circuitry connected for actuating, in a transmit mode, a sequence of the transducer elements for firing resultant incident bursts of ultrasonic energy transverse from the linear array into the subject from different locations along the linear transducer  array, control circuitry for causing groups of adjacent linearly disposed transducer elements to receive, in a receive mode, the echoes produced by corresponding incident bursts, each element group defining a reception pattern having a near field and a far field which intersect at a transition zone having a maximum receiving resolution and whose location is a function of the cumulative longitudinal dimension of the transducer elements constituting the receiving group,  said display means including display apparatus and imaging circuitry coupled to the transducer array and responsive to received ultrasonic echoes for producing the visual representation of internal structure of the subject, and the adjusting circuitry comprising dynamic aperture circuitry associated with the control circuitry for varying the longitudinal dimension of each receiving group of transducer elements during its operation in said receive mode for causing the transition region to substantially track recession of the corresponding in    ident    ultrasonic burst into the subject.    9. the system of claim 8, characterized in that said dynamic aperture circuitry comprises circuitry for expanding the   longttudinal    dimension of each receiving transducer element group during recession of said corresponding incident burst by successively adding adjacent transducer elements to said receiving group during its operation in the receive mode.    10. the system of claim 9, characterized in that said dynamic aperture circuitry further comprises circuitry for adding said adjacent transducer elements to said receiving group at a rate which approximately maintains the effective length of said receiving group of transducer elements at a value represented by the express ion emi22.1       where l is the wavelength of the ultrasonic energy in the subject and x is the instantnaeous distance of a wavefront of the corresponding receding incident burst from the transducer array.    11. the system of claim 6, characterized in that comprising, pulser circuitry is coupled to a multi-element transducer array for tiring the incident ultrasonic burst into the subject from the trans  lur    array in a transmit mode, circuitry for applying elements of  the transducer array to receive ultrasonic echoes from the incident burst in a receive mode, the transducer elements defining the receiving pattern whose transition zone location is a function of the number of transducer elements applied for receiving; and   dynamns    aperture control circuitry for varying, during the receive mode, the number of transducer elements applied for receiving echoes for causing said transition zone to recede into the subject at approximately the acoustic velocity of the ultrasonic energy in the subject.    12. the system of claim 11, characterized in that said dynamic aperture control circuitry further comprises: circuitry for varying the number of applied receiving transducer elements during the receive mode at a rate and timing for causing said transition zone to recede into the subject substantially coincident with a wavefront of said incident burst.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
