<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0017447
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19801015
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
A61N-1/368 <main>A61N-1/36</main> 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
rate and a-v delay generator for heart pacemaker.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
medtronic incus<sep>medtronic, inc.<sep>medtronic, inc.3055 old highway eightminneapolis minnesota 55440us<sep>medtronic, inc. <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
barthel thomas c<sep>barthel, thomas c.<sep>barthel, thomas c.route 1becker minnesota 55308us<sep>barthel, thomas c. <sep>barthel, thomas c.route 1becker minnesota 55308us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a pacemaker pulse generator for producing timing  signals for atrial stimulation on line 71 and ventricular  stimulation on line 60 comprises a ramp generator 30,39 and  a reference voltage generator 15, 21, 22, 23, 24.  when the  ramp voltage 40 reaches the reference voltage 25, compara­ tor 42 resets ramp generator 30 via transistors 46 and 53 and  produces a ventricular timing signal.  potentiometer 22  adjusts the reference voltage and hence ventricular rate.  the forward voltage drop of diode 62 produces a fixed  offset voltage from ramp 40 and a variable portion of the  offset is picked off by potentiometer 61 to produce a second  (offset) ramp on line 67.  when the offset ramp 67 reaches the  reference voltage 25, comparator 70 produces the atrial  timing signal 71.  varying potentiometer 61 varies the a-v  delay between signals 71 and 60 independently of the  ventricular rate.  in a demand-type pacemaker, the ramp generator may  be reset by a sensed natural heartbeat supplied by a sense  amplifier to terminal 80.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
rate and a-v delay generator for heart pacemaker technical field of the invention the present invention pertains to the field of artificial heart pacemakers, and more particularly to generating circuits for providing the timing pulses for atrial and ventricular stimulation pulses in an atrial-ventricular (a-v) sequential pacemaker. more specifically, the present invention pertains to an improved rate and a-v timing generator that permits rate and a-v delay interval to be independently adjusted by their own separate controls, which controls have no substantial interaction with each other. background of the prior art it is generally necessary to provide some means for adjusting the pacing rate in an artificial heart pacemaker so as to tailor the operation of the device to the needs of the patient. in the case of an a-v sequential pacemaker, it is also generally necessary to provide some means for adjusting the delay interval between the atrial and ventricular stimulation pulses. implantable pacemakers present their ovm problems in achieving these adjustment functions, and numerous techniques have been developed in the prior art to meet these needs. in the case of external heart pacemakers, in which the generating and control circuitry is in a device external of the body connected by electrode leads which pass through the skin to the patient's heart, control of pacing rate, a-v delay and possibly other operating parameters is generally accomplished by control knobs on the front panel of the device. through the use of these controls the physician can adjust the timing parameters of the pacemaker to meet the patients needs. however, external a-v sequential pacemakers in the prior art are subject to certain unwanted interactions between the control for rate and the control for a-v delay, in that changing the control knob setting for one control not only changes the intended timing function, but also causes an unwanted change in the other parameter. it has long been recognized in the prior art that the basic heart beat rate to be maintained by an a-v pacemaker must be with reference to the ventricular beats, either spontaneous or stimulated, and not by reference to the atrial stimulation. this has caused certain complications in the design of satisfactory rate and a-v delay generating circuits. if it were possible simply to reference basic rate to the atrial pulses, it would be a simple matter to provide circuits to time out a first interval for the atrial-to-atrial rate, and a second shorter interval following an atrial pulse to provide the a-v delay interval, and the two time intervals could easily be independently controllable. however, it has been recognized that such a system would lead to variable or erratic heart rate, because of the uncertainty in practice as to whether the ventricle may depolarize following a stimulated atrial depolarization but before the pacemaker would provide a ventricular stimulation output pulse. since this situation can change from beat to beat, the time interval between successive ventricular depolarizations would vary by a certain amount under such a system, and this
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims   1. apparatus for producing atrial and ventricular timing signals for a pacemaker with independent control of ventricular rate and atrial-ventricular delay, comprising: means for generating a voltage ramp signal; means for providing a reference voltage; first voltage comparison means connected to receive said voltage ramp signal and said reference voltage and operative to produce an output signal when said voltage ramp signal reaches said reference voltage; voltage offset means connected to receive one of said voltage ramp signal or said reference voltage and operative to produce an offset voltage signal which differs therefrom by an offset voltage;  second   voltage    comparison means connected to receive said offset voltage signal and the other of said voltage ramp signal or said reference voltage and operative to produce another output signal spaced in time from said first-mentioned output signal according to the amount of said offset voltage, the earlier and later of said output signals providing atrial and ventricular timing signals, respectively; means for adjusting the relationship of said reference voltage and said voltage ramp signal, whereby the ventricular rate may be controlled; and means for adjusting the amount of said offset voltage, whereby the atrial-ventricular   delay    may be independently controlled.   2. apparatus according to claim 1 further including means responsive to the later of said output signals to reset said voltage ramp generating means to recommence the voltage ramp signal.   3. apparatus according to claim 1 or 2 wherein said voltage offset means is connected to receive said voltage ramp signal and is operative to produce a second voltage ramp signal that parallels and leads said first  mentioned voltage ramp signal and differs therefrom by said offset voltage, said second voltage comparison means being connected to receive said second voltage ramp signal and said reference voltage.      apparatus    according to claim 1 or 2 wherein said voltage offset means is connected to receive said reference voltage and is operative to produce a second reference voltage that differs therefrom by said offset voltage, said second voltage comparison means being connected to receive said second reference voltage and said voltage ramp signal and operative to produce said other output signal when the voltage ramp signal reaches the second reference voltage.   5. apparatus according to any preceding claim including means for adjusting said reference voltage to control the ventricular rate.      6    apparatus according to any preceding claim wherein said voltage offset means includes a diode network connected to provide a predetermined voltage drop.   7. apparatus according to claim 6 wherein said means for adjusting the amount of said offset voltage includes a voltage divider connected in a circuit parallel to said diode network whereby an adjustable portion of said predetermined voltage drop may be selected as said offset voltage.   8. apparatus according to claim 6 or 7 wherein said voltage offset means comprises a first diode connected to receive said voltage ramp signal and wherein said offset voltage comprises the forward bias voltage drop of the diode,  9. apparatus according to claim 8 further including a resistor in series with said first diode and a zener diode connected in parallel with the resistor and diode to further stabilize said offset voltage.      110.    apparatus according to claim 8 or 9 wherein said first diode comprises a schottky diode.   11. apparatus for producing atrial and ventricular timing signals for a pacemaker with independent control of ventricular rate and atrial-ventricular delay, comprising: means for generating a voltage ramp signal; means for providing an adjustable reference voltage; first voltage comparison means connected to receive said ramp signal and said reference voltage and operative to produce an output signal comprising the ventricular timing signal when said ramp voltage reaches said reference voltage; voltage offset means connected to receive said voltage ramp signal and operative in response thereto to produce a second voltage ramp signal that parallels and leads said first mentioned voltage ramp signal and differs therefrom by a predetermined offset voltage;   second voltage comparison means connected to receive said reference voltage and said second voltage ramp signal and operative to produce an output signal comprising the atrial timing signal; and means for adjusting the amount of said offset voltage whereby the ventricular rate may be controlled by adjusting said reference voltage and the atrial-ventricular delay may be independently controlled by adjusting said offset voltage.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
