<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0012525
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800625
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
A01N-43/34 A01N-25/32 A01N-43/40 A01N-43/82 A01N-43/72 A01N-43/90 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
herbicidal compositions containing a herbicidal bipyridylium quaternary salt and an alerting agent.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
ici ltdgb<sep>imperial chemical industries plc<sep>imperial chemical industries plcimperial chemical house, millbanklondon sw1p 3jfgb <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
foulkes david mackiegb  <sep>foulkes, david mackie<sep>foulkes, david mackiethe old school houseturville henley-on-thames, oxfordshiregb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
herbicidai composition comprising an aqueous solution  of a herbicidal bipyridylium quaternary salt containing a  bitter-tasting substance as a deterrent to accidental inges­ tion by acting as an alerting agent, preferred bittering  agents being defined.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
improved herbicidal composittons this invention relates to concentrated herbicidal compositions containing a herbicidal bipyridylium quaternary salt as an active ingredient. following the discovery of the insecticidal properties of ddt and the synthesis of the hormone type weedkillers exemplified by 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, a large range of pesticides has been developed for agricultural use in the control of fungal and insect pests and weeds. while these substances are necessarily toxic to certain forms of life, when used with due care and in accordance with governmentally approved codes of practice, they present no hazard to human life. however, in spite of efforts to encourage those concerned with pesticides to adopt safe handling practices, instances of misuse of pesticides do occur. one particular unsafe practice in the case of liquid pesticides is for an operator to transfer a small amount of the concentrated pesticide to a domestic container such as a beverage bottle for subsequent use at home. the risk attached to this practice is of course that a child or incautious adult coming upon the bottle may swallow the contents with possibly serious consequences. various proposals have been put forward to reduce the likelihood that solutions of herbicidal bipyridylium quaternary salts might be accidentally swallowed in this way. thus, it has been proposed in u.k. patent no. 1406881 to add a mixture of alkyl pyridines ("pyridine basel) to the herbicide solution so that the distinctive odour will act as a warning that the solution is not a beverage. other odourants have also been proposed. it has also been proposed (see u.k. patent 13955021 to add gelling agents to the herbicide solution to make it thixotropic, so that on standing the solution forms a gel which will not pour easily. it has also been proposed (see u.k. patent 1507407) to add certain triazolopyrimidine derivatives to the herbicide solution to provide a composition which will provoke vomiting and consequent expulsion of the composition soon after it has been swallowed. the present invention provides a further or alternative method of reducing the likelihood of accidental swallowing of herbicidal bipyridylium salts in the circumstances referred to above, by the inclusion in the herbicide solution of an alerting agent-com- prising a bittering agent ci.e. a substance having an intensely bitter flavour), which acts as a warning that the solution is not a beverage if any of the solution is taken into the mouth. accordingly the present invention provides a concentrated herbicidal composition comprising an aqueous solution of a herbicidal bipyridylium quaternary cation, which contains an alerting agent comprising a quaternary salt of the formula (i) or (ii) below: emi2.1 emi3.1 wherein r1 represents benzyl or chlorobenzyl; r and r3 each represent alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms; 4. r is phenyl or substituted phenyl or a carboxy-substituted aliphatic group; and r5 is a phenylene group, a substituted phenylene group, an alkylene group, a subs tituted alkylene group, or a single chemical bond. a preferred alerting agent is benzyl diethyl / (2,6-xylylcarbamoyl)methyl / ammonium benzoate which has the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
what we claim is:   1. a herbicidal composition comprising an aqueous  solution of a herbicidal bipyridylium quaternary  salt   containing    a bittering agent to act as a  deterrent to accidental ingestion by acting as an  alerting agent.   2. concentrated herbicidal composition comprising  an aqueous solution of a herbicidal bipyridylium  quaternary cation, which contains an alerting  agent comprising a quaternary salt of the formula  (i) or (ii) below: emi8.1       wherein   r1    represents benzyl or chlorobenzyl;  2   3     r and r each represent alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon  atoms;  r4 is phenyl or substituted phenyl or a carboxy  substituted aliphatic group;  and r5 is a phenylene group, a substituted  phenylene group, an   alkyiene    group, a substituted  alkylene group, or a single chemical bond.     3. a herbicidal composition according to   ciaim    2  wherein the alerting agent is benzyl diethyl    z (2,6-xylylcarbamoylxmethyl¯7    ammonium benzoate.   4. a herbicidal composition according to any of the  preceding claims and wherein the alerting agent is  present in a concentration of from 1 to 10 parts  per million of the herbicidal composition; that  is to say from 0.001 grams to 0.01 grams per litre  of the composition.   5. a herbicidal composition according to any of the  preceding claims and further containing an  odourant, gelling agent, or s-triazolopyrimidine  emetic agent, as herein defined.   6. a herbicidal composition according to any of the  preceding claims and further containing   a surf ace     active agent.   7. a herbicidal composition according to claim 6  wherein the surface active agent is a cationic or  non-ionic surface active agent.      8.    a herbicidal composition according to claim 6 or 7  wherein the surface active agent is a condensation  product of ethylene oxide with an alkyl phenol  such as octylphenol, nonylphenol or octylcresol;  or is a partial ester derived from a long chain  fatty acid and hexitol anhydride, for example  sorbitan monolaurate; or is a condensation  product of the said partial ester with ethylene  oxide; or a lecithin.   9. a herbicidal composition according to any of  claims 6 to 8 and containing from 20 to 100 grams  of surface active agent per litre of the composition.     10. a herbicidal composition according to any of  claims 2 to 9 and wherein the herbicidal bipyridy  lium cation has the following formulae: emi10.1       wherein r and ri, which may be the same or different, stand for alkyl radicals of from 1 to 4 carbon atoms which may be substituted by hydroxy, halogen, carboxyl, lower alkoxy, lower alkylcarbonyl, lower alkoxycarbonyl, carbamoyl or n-lower alkyl substituted carbamoyl;   exn    represents an anion and n is an integer from 1 to 4 inclusive.   11. a herbicidal composition according to any of  claims 2   to 10    wherein the herbicidal bipyridylium  quaternary cation is:  1,1'-ethylene-2,2'-bipyridylium dibromide (diquat  dibromide)    1,1'-dimethyl-4,4'-bipyridylium    dichloride  (paraquat dichloride)    1,1 '-di-2-hydroxyethyl-4, 4 '-bipyridylium    dichloride  1-(2-hydroxyethyl)-1'-methyl-4,4'-bipyridylium  dichloride      1,1' -di-carbamoylmethyl-4, 4, -bipyridylium  chloride     1,1'-bis-n,n-dimethylcarbamoylmethyl-4,4'-bi  bipyridylium   chloride     1,1'-bis-n,n'-diethylcarbamoylmethyl-4,4'-  bipyridylium dichloride    1,1' -diacetonyl-4, 4, -bipyridylium    dichloride    1,1'-diethoxycarbonylmethyl-4,4'-bipyridylium     dibromide, or    1, l'-diallyl-4,   4'-bipyridylium    dibromide.   12. a herbicidal composition according to any of  claims 2 to 11 and wherein the amount of herbi  cidal bipyridylium quaternary cation present in  the composition is from 0.5 to 3.0 pounds per  imperial gallon   t50    grams to 300 grams per litre)  and especially from 1.0 to 2.5 pounds per imperial  gallon (100 grams to 250 grams per litre).   13. a herbicidal composition according   to any    of the  preceding claims wherein the anion of the herbi  cidal bipyridylium quaternary salt is chloride,  bromide, sulphate, or methylsulphate.   14. a process for combating undesired vegetation  which comprises applying to the vegetation a  composition as claimed in any of the preceding  claims.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
