<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0016499
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19801001
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
A01M-17/00 A01C-15/00 A01B-13/08 A01B-13/00 A01C-21/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
agricultural apparatus and agricultural methods.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
stellenbosch farmers servicesza<sep>stellenbosch farmers' services (proprietary) limited<sep>stellenbosch farmers' services (proprietary) limitedoude libertasstellenbosch cape provinceza<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
raubenheimer gustav hogkinsza<sep>raubenheimer, gustav hogkins<sep>raubenheimer, gustav hogkins54 jonkershoek roadstennenbosch cape provinceza<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
apparatus for distributing a chemical substance in  agricultural land at below surface level, say, 1 metre below.   the apparatus includes a hopper (10, 114) for the substance, a  blower (16, 146) for feeding material from the outlet of the  hopper into a down-pipe (48, 144), and an agitator (88, 132) for  preventing packing in the hopper.  a shank (26) has an earth-­ working implement (30) at the lower end thereof for lifting the  ground and breaking-up subsoil clods but not turning the soil  over.  the implement has an aperture (40) in it rearwardly of  the shank (26), and the downpipe leads to this aperture so that  said substance is discharged under pressure below said  implement, the pipe lying rearwardly of the shank.  under the  hole there is a plate (42) on which down-flowing substance  impinges and which scatters it laterally.  the substance can  flow from the hopper into the blower and then out of the  blower outlet into the downpipe.  alternatively, the substance  can flow into the upper part of the downpipe and air can be  blown into the downpipe so as to suck the chemical substance  from the upper part of the downpipe into the lower part, and  then discharge it under pressure below the implement.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
this invention relates to agricultural apparatus for treating the subsoil. applicants are aware of many forms of agricultural apparatus which have been proposed to enable treatment of the subsoil to be undertaken. such treatment involves the application of a chemical substance such as a fertilizer, a herbicide or a fungicide to the subsoil. many proposals have been made involving the application of ammonia in liquid, solid and gaseous form to the subsoil. all forms of apparatus of which applicants are aware are intended to apply the substance in a band which is up to 25 cm below the surface of the ground. in such forms of apparatus a major consideration is often the avoidance of wastage. if the substance is simply applied to the surface of the soil then it is clear that only a proportion of this will eventually be leached down to the zone at which the roots are seeking nourishment. many forms of known apparatus place the substance in the soil in the form of.a thin strip running rearwardly from te,e applying tool. some efforts have been made to increase the width and the depth of the zone which is being treated by a single applicator but, usually, a wide band of treated soil can only be achieved by the use of a number of closely spaced sideby-side applicators which produce a series of bands of treated soil. where each applicator is at the lower end of an individual shank, this causes considerable mixing of the soil down to the depth of application. if the layer of top soil is relatively thick, then this is not necessarily detrimental. however, if there is only a relatively thin surface layer of top soil then mixing is disadvantageous in that it mixes the top soil with the subsoil and tends to bring the poorer subsoil to the surface. applicants have become aware that plant growth ca#' be inhibited if there is an obstruction which prevents the plant roots penetrating deeply into the ground. this is particularly true of vines and fruit trees where the presence of one or more compacted layers of subsoil at depths of between 10 and 100 cm below surface level can have an adverse effect on the growth of the vines or fruit trees. none of the forms of apparatus of which applicants are aware are capable of treating a soil formation which includes one or more relatively deeply lying compacted layers of subsoil. it is an object of the present invention to provide apparatus which enables deep treatment of the subsoil to be undertaken with simultaneous breaking-up of compacted layers and the application-of a chemical substance. according to the present invention there is provided agricultural apparatus which includes a shank having means for mounting it on a tractive vehicle and having an earthworking implement at the lower end thereof, there being a pipe extending downwardly adjacent the shank, the earthworking implement comprising a wing mould board on each side of the shank, the wing mould
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1. agricultural apparatus which includes a shank having   wears for   mounting    it on a   tractive    vehicle and having an   #jarthworking    implement at the lower end   thereof,      there    being a pipe extending downwardly adjacent the shank with the lower end of the pipe opening below the earthworking implement, charac   erized    in that the earthworking implement (30) comprises a   ing    mouldboard (32) on each side of the shank (26), the wing ouldboards (32) sloping upwardly in the rearward direction and said pipe (48, 144) having its- lower end opening into the zone below said wing mouldboards (32) and its upper end connected to means (16, 84, 146) for forcing a chemical substance down the pipe and into said zone, there being soil breakers (36) at the rear of the implement,  the soil breakers extending rearwardly from the trailing edge of the remainder of the implement and protruding above said trailing edge.   2. agricultural apparatus according to claim 1, characterized in that said wing mouldboards (32) extend rearwardly of the shank and there is a plate (33) joining said mouldboards behind the shank, there being an aperture (40) in said plate, said pipe (48, 144) leading down to said aperture and there being below said aperture (40) a distributor plate (42) which material flowing down said pipe strikes and is distributed laterally.     3. agricultural apparatus according to claim 2, characterized in that said distributor plate (42) includes an element (42.1) in the form of an upwardly convergent vee, the apex of which lies below said aperture (40).   4. agricultural apparatus according to claim 1, 2 or 3, and comprising a hopper for the chemical substance, characterized in that the outlet from the hopper (10) communicates with   elle    interior of the housing of a blower (16) and the outlet of the blower communicates with said pipe (48).   5. agricultural apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 3 and comprising a hopper for the chemical substance which hopper is arranged so that the chemical substance flows under gravity into the upper end of said pipe, characterized in that there is a blower (146) for forcing air into said pipe (144) at an intermediate point thereof in such manner that it draws downwardly the substance which is in the part of the pipe above the air entry point.   6. agricultural apparatus according to claim 4 or 5, characterized by an agitator (88, 132) at the outlet of the hopper for preventing packing and bridging of the substance.    7. agricultural apparatus according to claim 6, characterized in that said agitator (88,132) is driven by a fluid motor (70, 160).     8. agricultural apparatus according to claim 4, 5 or 6, characterized in that said blower (84, 146) is driven by a fluid motor (70, 148).      agricultural    apparatus according to claim 4, 5, 6 or 7, characterized by mechanically operable means (94,96,98,100) for enabling the rate of flow of chemical substance through the hopper outlet to be varied.      o.    agricultural apparatus according to claim 1, characterized in that said means is a pump (198), there being a tank (174) for receiving a liquid and the suction inlet pipe (200) of the pump being connected to said tank, said pipe communicating with a spray bar (208) which is in said zone.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
