<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0009863
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800416
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
F16B-5/04 F16B-5/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
method and apparatus for the attachment of reinforcing elements or fitments to thin sheet materials.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
bennet bowler sp limitedgb<sep>bennet-bowler (sp) limited<sep>bennet-bowler (sp) limitedwood lane industrial estatehayfield, stockport cheshire, sk12 5eugb<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
scowen john malcolmgb<sep>scowen, john malcolm<sep>scowen, john malcolm112 manchester road chapel-en-le-frithvia stockport, cheshiregb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
disclosed is a method and apparatus for attaching rein足 forcing headboards (30,50) to a boat sail (20).  one headboard  (50) having a plurality of hollow rivets (51) located therein, is  positioned on the lower platen (2) of a pneumatic press and  located by pegs (8) extending from the platen (2) into the  rivets (51), the pegs (8) being retractable into the platen (2)  against springs (10) contained therein.  the upper platen (3)  of the press contains a series of cutters (33) positioned to  correspond with the pegs (8) in the lower platen (2) and hav足 ing a portion (34) which is a sliding fit into rivets (51) and a  shoulder (35) adapted to turn over the upper ends (52) of the  rivets.  the upper headboard (30) is located adjacent upper  platen (3) and contains rivet holes (31) aligned with the cut足 ters (33).  the sail (20) is positioned on the lower platen (2) to  rest on the ends (52) of the rivets (51) and the press caused to  force the cutters (33) into the rivets (51) thereby punching  holes in the sail (20) through which the rivets (51) pass,  before passing through the holes (31) in the upper head足 board (30) and subsequently turning the ends (52) of the  rivets (51) over onto the upper headboard (30) to sandwich  the sail (20) between the said headboards (30, 50).  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
improvements in or relating to the attachment of reinforcing elements or fitments to thin sheet materials the present invention relates to a method and apparatus for attaching a reinforcing element or a fitment to thin sheet material, especially fabric material. the traditional method of attaching a reinforcing element, for example, to thin sheet material such as sail cloth requires a multi-stage operation. the sail cloth is first apertured and the reinforcing elements then applied. where the element is a headboard consisting of two plates sandwiching the sail cloth and which is required to be riveted in position, a number of apertures have to be individually formed in the sail cloth, the plates and rivets placed in position and then the sail taken to a hydraulic press where the rivets are flared to effect closure. this is a labour intensive expensive and time consuming operation. we have now developed a method for attaching a reinforcing element or a fitment to thin sheet material in which the punching and riveting operations are carried out simultaneously resulting in considerable savings in both time and cost. accordingly, from one aspect, the present invention provides a method for the attachment of a reinforcing element or a fitment to thin sheet material, said element or fitment comprising at least one member having a cylindrical portion including an end face for penetration through said sheet material, wherein said member is positioned between the platens of a press tool, one said platen supporting said cylindrical portion, and the other platen including means to flare out the said end face of said cylindrical portion, the sheet material being positioned over said member to rest on the said end face of the cylindrical portion and the press tool operated to cause the said face to penetrate the said material and the end of said cylindrical portion to be flared to attach the element or fitment to the said material. the reinforcing element may consist of two or more members and include at least one cylindrical portion, and one member of said element, including said cylindrical portion, positioned on one platen of a press tool such that the free end of said cylindrical portion stands proud of said member and the other member of said element or fitment located on the other platen of said press tool, the.-material positioned over said first member to rest on said proud end of said cylindrical portion and the press tool operated to cause the cylindrical portion of the element to penetrate the said material and at least the proud end thereof to be flared to attach all members of the element or fitment to.the material. the present invention also includes apparatus to accomplish the said method comprising a press including upper and lower platens, one said platen including means to support a member including a cylindrical portion having an end face adapted to penetrate said sheet material and the other said platen including means to cause said end face to penetrate the material and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:   1. a method for the attachment of a reinforcing element or a fitment to thin sheet material, characterised in that said element or fitment comprises at least one member having a cylindrical portion including an end face for penetration through the said sheet material, wherein said member is positioned between the platens of a press tool, one said platen supporting said cylindrical portion and the other platen including means to flare out the said end face of said cylindrical portion, the sheet material being positioned over said member to rest on said end face and the press tool operated to cause the said face to penetrate the said material and the end of the said cylindrical portion to be flared to attach the element or fitment to the said material.   2. a method according to claim 1 characterised in that the thin sheet material is a boat sail (20).   3. a method according to claim 1 or 2 characterised in that the reinforcing element comprises an eyelet consisting of two ring members and a liner (14).   4. a method according to claim 1, 2, or 3 characterised in that the reinforcing element comprises two opposed plastic or metallic plate members between which the thin material   .t20)    is sandwiched by riveting.   5. a method according to claim 4 characterised in that one said headboard   iq    pre-formed with rivets located in appropriate rivet holes prior to being positioned on one said platen.   6. apparatus for attaching a reinforcing element or fitment to thin sheet material comprising a press including upper (3) and lower (2) platens; characterised in that one said platen (2) includes means to support a member including a  cylindrical portion (51, 14) having an end face (52,54) adapted to penetrate said thin sheet material (20) and the other said platen (3) including means (33,35) to cause said end face (52,54) to penetrate said material and flare said end face to attach said member to said sheet material.   7. an apparatus according to claim 6 characterised in that the cylindrical portion (52,54) is tubular and is located on one said platen (2) by   meas    (8) extending into said tubular portion.   8. an apparatus according to claim 7 characterised in that the said   supportingmeanscomprises    a cylindrical support (8) retractable into said one platen (2) against resilient means (10) normally maintaining said   supportig    means proud of said platen and said other platen includes second means (33) adapted to extend through said thin material and into said tubular portion on operation of said press and to turn over the ends of said tubular portion.    9. an apparatus according to claim 11 characterised in that a plate (40) is positioned between said platens (2,3) said plate being positioned on said other platen (3) and containing orifices (43) through which said second means (33) extend, resilient spring members (46) bearing against said platen (3) and said plate (40), being located around each said means (33).   10. an apparatus according to claim 9 characterised in that said second   meansi:(33)    has a concave end face (36) and said cylindrical support (8) extending into said tubular member (51) has a domed end face (13), the domed end face of said supporting member being of smaller radius than the radius of the concave end face of said second means.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
