<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0006363
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800109
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B65D-55/04 F16B-39/32 B21C-47/16 B21C-47/00 <main>B65H-49/00</main> B65D-55/02 B65H-49/00 B65H-49/08 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
reel container.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
british insulated callendersgb<sep>bicc limited<sep>bicc limited21, bloomsbury streetlondon, wc1b 3qngb<sep>bicc limited <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
rowlands martyn omar<sep>rowlands, martyn omar<sep>rowlands, martyn omarwinchelsea house high roadepping, essexgb<sep>rowlands, martyn omar<sep>rowlands, martyn omarwinchelsea house high roadepping, essexgb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
in a two-part container having at one end a hole (29)  through which wire from a reel housed in the container  can be withdrawn, the two parts (1, 21) of the container  are secured together by relative rotation of one with res­ pect to the other, e.  g.  by a multistart screw thread.  the  parts carry a spring-loaded pawl and ratchet mechanism  (4, 24) which permits relative rotation when the two parts  are being secured together and which, when the two  parts are fully engaged, prevents separation of the two  parts by relative rotation in the opposite direction unless  the spring-loaded pawl (24) is disengaged from the rat­ chet (4).  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
an improved reel container this invention relates to apparatus for facilitating the transportation and de-reeling of a reel wound with wire or other flexible filamentary material, all such filamentary material hereinafter, for convenience, being included in the generic term "wire. " it is the general practice to transport a reel of wire in a two-part container which has in one of its end walls a hole, or area of weakness readily removable to leave a hole, through which wire can be drawn from the reel whilst it is still housed in the container. with a view to preventing theft of or tampering with the reel it is the custom to secure the two parts of the container together by means of a separately formed detachable locking device, usually a locking device fabricated from steel and operating with a toggle lock on a rim band. such locking devices are difficult to assemble, are subject to corrosion and are easily mislaid. an object of the present invention is to provide a two- part reel container which incorporates improved means for locking together rhe two parts of the container. according to the invention the reel container comprises two separately formed parts each having an end wall and, upstanding from the end wall, a circumferentially continuous side wall and one of said parts having in its end wall a hole, or an area of weakness readily removable to leave a hole, for withdrawal of wire from a reel when housed in the container, wherein the two parts are adapted to be secured together by relative rotation of one with respect to the other and carry-a spring loaded pawl and ratchet mechanism which permits relative rotation between the two parts when they are being secured together and which, when the two parts are fully engaged, prevents separation of the two parts by relative rotation in the opposite direction unless the spring-loaded pawl is disengaged from the ratchet. the improved reel container has two important advantages. firstly, by virtue of the fact that the two parts of the container carry a spring loaded pawl and ratchet mechanism for locking the parts together, no assembly of a locking device is involved and there is no risk of a locking device being mislaid; the pawl and ratchet can be made of suitable plastics material and so the problem of corrosion need not arise. secondly, when the two parts of the container are being secured together by rotation of one with respect to the other, the pawl and ratchet #ecnanisrr gives an audible indication as the two parts approach the position :n which they are full engaged. in the preferred embodiment, the two parts are in screw threaded engagement but, in some circumstances, the two parts may be secured together by means of one or more than one bayonet fitting. preferably, the pawl is pivotally mounted on the side wall of one part of the container and the ratchet comprises a plurality of circumferentially spaced recesses extending around at
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
   what    we claim is:   1. a reel container comprising two separately formed parts each having an end wall and, upstanding from the end wall, a circumferentially continuous side wall and one of said parts having in its end wall a hole, or an area of weakness readily removable to leave a hole, for withdrawal of wire from a reel when housed in the container, wherein the two parts are adapted to be secured together by relative rotation of one with respect to the other and carry a spring-loaded pawl and ratchet mechanism which permits relative rotation between the   hvo    parts when they are being secured together and which, when the   twoo    parts are fully engaged, prevents separation of the two parts by relative rotation in the opposite direction unless the spring-loaded pawl is disengaged from the ratchet.   2. a reel container comprising two separately formed parts each having an end wall and, upstanding from the end wall, a   circumferentially    continuous side wall and one of said parts having in its end wall a hole, or an area of weakness readily removable to leave a hole, for withdrawal of wire from a reel when housed in the container, wherein the two parts are adapted to be secured together by relative rotation of one with respect to the other and carry a spring-loaded pawl and ratchet mechanism which permits relative rotation between the two parts when they are being secured together and which, when the two    parts are sully engaged, prevents separation of the two parts by relative  rotation in the opposite direction unless the spring-loaded pawl is  disengaged from the ratchet,  the pawl being pivotally mounted on the  side wall of one part of the container and the ratchet comprising a  plurality of circumferentially spaced recesses extending around at  least part of the periphery of the side wall of the other part of the  container, the boundary wall of each recess against   which    the pawl  will bear as the   two    parts are secured together being so inclined as  to permit the pawl to ride over the boundary wall against he   action     of the spring and into the next recess and an opposite   boundary    wall  of each recess being of such a shape that it forms an abutment which p revents the two parts from being unscrewed unless the pawi is manually  disengaged from the recess against the action of the   spr:-.g.       3. a reel container as claimed in claim 2, wherein the  pawl is in the form of a spring-loaded lever pivotally mounted between  a pair of guards which project outwardly of the side wall of the container  carrying the pawl and which extend substantially parallel to the axis  of the container, the pivotal axis of the pawl being normal to the  axis of the container.    4. a reel container as claimed in claim 3,   wherein    the  pawl and guards have holes   or¯grooves    which, at least when the pawl  is engaged in the recess of the ratchet, are in alignment and provide  for securing the reel container against tampering by means of a wire and lead seal or by a plastics seal or tie.   5. a reel container as claimed in any one of claims 2 to 4, wherein each recess of the ratchet is of approximately triangular shape, two walls of the triangular recess constituting the said boundary walls and the third wall lying on a common circumference of the container with the opposite apex of the triangular recess remote from the pawl, and wherein the end of the pawl which engages successively in the   recesses of the    ratchet as the two parts of the container are relatively rotated -is of complementary shape.   6. a reel container as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the   hvo    parts of the container are in screw-threaded   engagement.      7. a reel container as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the part of the container that does not have a hole or area of weakness in its end wall for withdrawal of wire from the container, has a boss   which    upstands from its own end wall and which is coaxial with the hole or area of weakness when the two parts are screwed   together.       8. a reel container as claimed in claim 7, wherein the part of the container having the boss upstanding from the end wall  constitutes the lower part of the container and the axial length of this part of the container is substantially shorter than the axial length of the other part.   9. a reel container as claimed in claim 8, wherein the side wall of the lower part of the container has a plurality of ribs or is otherwise serrated so that it can be effectively gripped by the feet of an operator whilst the upper part of the container is screwed to or  unscrewed from the lower part.    10. a reel container as claimed in any one of the preceding  claims, wherein each part of the container is a moulded body of   thermo-     plastics material.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
