<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0012718
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800625
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
A61K-39/10 C12N-1/20 <main>A61K-39/10</main> 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
intra-respiratory vaccine, modified bacteria strain used in it, vaccine dose form and process for preparing it.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
univ iowa res foundus<sep>iowa state university research foundation, inc.,<sep>iowa state university research foundation, inc.315 beardshear hallames, iowa 50011us<sep>iowa state university research foundation, inc.,<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
farrington daniel owen<sep>goodnow robert allen<sep>shade floyd jerry<sep>sloboth thomas anthony<sep>switzer william paul<sep>farrington, daniel owen <sep>goodnow, robert allen<sep>shade, floyd jerry  <sep>sloboth, thomas anthony<sep>switzer, william paul<sep>farrington, daniel owen218 highland roadterre haute, indiana 47802us<sep>goodnow, robert allenr.f.d. 4 box 45aomaha, nebraska 68137us<sep>shade, floyd jerry16106 ohernomaha, nebraska 68137us<sep>sloboth, thomas anthony5865 gold streetomaha, nebraska 68106us<sep>switzer, william paulr.r. 1cambridge, iowa 50046us<sep>farrington, daniel owen<sep>goodnow, robert allen<sep>shade, floyd jerry<sep>sloboth, thomas anthony<sep>switzer, william paul <sep>farrington, daniel owen 218 highland road terre haute, indiana 47802us<sep>goodnow, robert allenr.f.d. 4 box 45aomaha, nebraska 68137us<sep>shade, floyd jerry16106 ohernomaha, nebraska 68137us<sep>sloboth, thomas anthony5865 gold streetomaha, nebraska 68106us<sep>switzer, william paulr.r. 1cambridge, iowa 50046us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a vaccine for animals subject to bordetella bron­ chiseptica infection comprises an aqueous suspension of  viable cells of a modified bordetella bronchiseptica strain.   this strain is not merely attenuated and avirulent but has  been modified so that it will colonize the respiratory mucosa  of animals for only a limited time before it is cleared,  causing no adverse effect on the animals.  during the limited  period of growth on the respiratory mucosa, however, the  strain is capable of inducing local resistance to b.  bron­ chiseptica infection.  swine are thereby protected against  atrophic rhinitis and turbinate atrophy and dogs against  tracheobronchitis (kennel cough).  a vaccine dose form  comprises a first vial containing freeze-dried cells of the  modified b.  bronchiseptica and a second vial contains  sterile water preferably with a wetting agent.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
intra-respiratory vaccine, a vaccine dose form and process for preparing them. bordetella bronchiseptica is capable of infecting the nasal passages and respiratory tracts of many animals, particularly mammals. b. bronchispectica is the cause of atrophic rhinitis and pneumonia in swine. harris and switzer, am. j. vet. res., 30, 1161-1166 (1969). a major lesion of the disease in swine is commonly referred to as "turbinate atrophy" because following the primary b. bronchiseptica infection, the nasal turbinate bones frequently undergo serious deterioration. see switzer and ferrington u.s. patent 4,016,253 (1977). in dogs, b. bronchiseptica has been characterized as the primary etiological agent in infectious canine tracheobronchitis more commonly known as kennel cough. wright et al, vet. rec., nov. 3, 1973, 486-487; appel et al, cornell research laboratory for disease of dogs, laboratory report, series 2, no. 6 (may, 1976). the latter publication states that kennel cough is a highly contagious respiratory disease of dogs which, although not life-threatening, should be prevented. the disease causes suffering to the dogs and is unpleasant for dog owners. it is commonly trans mitted when dogs are placed in kennels for boarding. other mammalian species are also afflicted with b. bronchiseptica infections of the respiratory tract. these include laboratory animals such as guinea pigs, rabbits, and rats, as well as animals raised for meat or fur, such as rabbits and chinchilla. see nakagawa et al, jap. j. vet. sci., 33(2), 53-60 (1971); oldenburg et al, monatshefte fur veterinarmedizin, 27(19), 738-743 (1972); burek et al, lab. an, sci., 22(6), 844-849 (1972); ioakimidis et al, kteniatrika nea thessaloniki, 2, 31-33 (1970). as with swine and dogs, the virulent b. bronchiseptica colonize the respiratory mucosa and thereby produce the clinical symtoms of the infection. b. bronchiseptica may also cause pneumonia in monkeys and other zoo animals. graves, lab. an. car., 20(2), 246-250 (1970). cats are carriers of b. bronchiseptica and may spread the disease to other animals, fisk et al, lab. an. sci., 23(1), 33-35 (1973). switzer and harris found that the introduction of live cells of a low-virulence strain of b. bronchiseptica into the nasal cavities of non-immune swine would cause a relatively mild infection, and that thereafter the swine would be immune to further infection, and would thereby be protected against turbinate atrophy. see j. vet. res., 30, 1161-1166 (july, 1969). the attenuated strain of b. bronchiseptica tested by switzer and harris was designated strain d-l. although introduction of strain d-1 into the nasal passages of swine protected the swine against turbinate atrophy, it was found that strain d-1 persisted in the nasal passages and produced a mild damage to the nasal epithelium. there was no evidence of reversion to a swine virulent form of b. bronchiseptica, but it was feared that strain d-l could infect other animals such as dogs. the need for an effective live intranasal vaccine which has no adverse effect and which does not persist on the nasal mucosa has not been met sofar. parenteral vaccines for intramuscular injection are also known. for example,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims   (applicable to all designated states other than austria) 1. an intra-respiratory vaccine for animals subject to bordetella bronchiseptica infection, characterized by being an aqueous suspension of viable cells of the modified bordetella bronchiseptica strain identified as atcc strain no. 31437 or of a strain derived therefrom and having essentially the same characteristics for intra-respiratory vaccine use, said aqueous suspension containing at least   2 x 103    of said viable cells per milliliter.   2. the vaccine of claim 1 in which said aqueous suspension contains at least 1 x 105 of said viable cells per milliliter and also contains residual culture nutrients.   3. the vaccine of claim 1 or 2 in which said aqueous suspension is sprayable and contains 1 x   106 to 1 x 108    of said viable cells per milliliter.   4. a vaccine dose form of an attentuated avirulent  strain of bordetella bronchiseptica for implant coloni  zation of the respiratory mucosa, comprising a combination  of a first vial containing freeze-dried viable cells of  b. bronchiseptica atcc strain no. 31437 or of a strain  derived therefrom and having essentially the same characte  ristics for intra-respiratory vaccine use, said first vial containing at least one dose of said vaccine, and of a second vial containing sterile water for addition to the cells of said first vial to form an aqueous suspension thereof, said aqueous suspension formed by adding said sterile water to said cells having a concentration of at least 1 x 106 of said viable cells per milliliter.   5. the vaccine dose form of claim 4, wherein the second vial contains a wetting agent dissolved in the sterile water, said wetting agent being present in an effective amount for promoting the rehydration of the cells and the mucosal implanting thereof, said wetting agent being non-inhibitory to the growth of said cells.   6. the vaccine dose form of claim 5, wherein said wetting agent is an anionic or non-ionic wetting agent.   7. the vaccine dose form of any one of claims4 to 6 wherein the amount of said sterile water in said second vial has a volume of from 40 to 60% of the volume of water removed from the cells in said first vial in freezedrying, the amount of said viable cells in said first  vial being a single dose of said vaccine of from 1 x 106 to 1 x 108 cells, and the amount of water in said second vial forming said aqueous suspension at a concentration of from 1 x 106 to 1 x 108 viable cells per milliliter.   8. a process of preparing a vaccine dose form of an attenuated avirulent strain of bordetella bronchiseptica for implant colonization of the respiratory mucosa, characterized in that a culture of b. bronchiseptica strain atcc no. 31437 or of a strain derived therefrom and having essentially the same characteristics for intra-respiratroy vaccine use is cultured in an aqueous nutrient medium to obtain an aqueous suspension of viable cells having a concentration of at least 1 x 107 viable cells per milliliter, an aqueous solution of microbiological cryoprotectant and stabilizer means is added to said cell suspension with consequent dilution of the cell concentration, the diluted cell suspension is subjected to freeze-drying the resulting dried cells having a reduced content of viable cells because of the loss of viability resulting from freeze-drying,  a measured quantity of said freeze-dried cells is introduced into a vaccine vial for storage and transport of the thus-prepared vaccine said vial con    taining at least one dose of said vaccine, and prior to  administration of said vaccine sterile water is added to  said quantity of cells, the amount of said added water  being at least 25% less than the volume of water removed  from said cell quantity by said freeze-drying while being  sufficient to form an aqueous suspension of said cells for  intra-respiratory administration.    9. the process of claim   8,    characterized in that said added sterile water contains an effective amount of a wetting agent for promoting the rehydration of said cells and the mucosal implanting thereof, said wetting agent in the amount present being non-inhibitory to the growth of said cells.   10. the modified strain of bordetella bronchiseptica identified as atcc strain no. 31437 or a strain derived therefrom and having essentially the same characteristics for intra-respiratory vaccine use,capable to clear from the nasal passages of swine and dogs after colonization thereof.     claims 1. a process for preparing an intra-respiratory vaccine for animals subject to bordetella bronchiseptica infection, characterized in that viable cells of bordetella bronchiseptica strain atcc no. 31437 or of a strain derived therefrom and having essentially the same characteristics for intra-respiratory vaccine use are introduced into a suitable aqueous culture medium and said medium is incubated at a temperature favoring the growth of the organism.   2. the process of claim 1, wherein the cultured cells are harvested by conventional techniques and an aqueous suspension is prepared having at least 1 x 105 of viable cells per milliliter.   3. the process of claim 2 wherein an aqueous suspension is prepared which is sprayable and contains 1 x 106 to 1 x 108 of viable cells per milliliter.     4. a process of preparing a vaccine dose form of an attenuated avirulent strain of bordetella bronchiseptica for implant colonization of the respiratory mucosa, characterized in that a culture of b. bronchiseptica strain atcc no. 31437 or of a strain derived therefrom and having essentially the same characteristics for intra-respiratroy vaccine use is cultured in an aqueous nutrient medium to obtain an aqueous suspension of viable cells having a concentration of at least 1 x 107 viable cells per milliliter, an aqueous solution of microbiological cryoprotectant and stabilizer means is added to said cell suspension with consequent dilution of the cell concentration, the diluted cell suspension is subjected to freeze-drying the resulting dried cells having a reduced content of viable cells because of the loss of viability resulting from freeze-drying,  a measured quantity of said freeze-dried cells is introduced into a vaccine vial for storage and transport of the thus-prepared vaccine said vial containing at least one dose of said vaccine, and prior to administration of said vaccine sterile water is added to said quantity of cells, the amount of said added water being at least 25% less than the volume of water removed from said cell quantity by said freeze-drying while being sufficient to form an aqueous suspension of said cells for intra-respiratory administration.      5. the process of claim 4, characterized in that said added sterile water contains an effective amount of a wetting agent for promoting the rehydration of said cells and the mucosal implanting thereof, said wetting agent in the amount present being non-inhibitory to the growth of said cells.   6. the process of claim 5, characterized in that said wetting agent is an anionic or non-ionic'wetting agent.   7. the process of any one of claims 4 to 6, characterized in that said added sterile water is equal to 40 to 60% of the volume of water removed from said cell quantity by freeze-drying.   8. the process of any one of claims 4 to 7, characterized in that said vaccine vial contains from 1 x 106 to 1 x 108 of said viable cells per dose quantity.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
