<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0011394
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800528
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<main>B65D-35/50</main> B05B-11/00 B65D-47/20 B65D-47/04 B05B-11/04 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
dispensing apparatus.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
containaire incus<sep>containaire, inc.<sep>containaire, inc.1805 the east ohio building cleveland, ohio 44114 us <sep>containaire, inc.  <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
beall glenn l<sep>mueller john joseph<sep>beall, glenn l.<sep>mueller, john joseph<sep>beall, glenn l.887 s. riverside drivegurnee, illinois 60031us<sep>mueller, john joseph2316 kings circlewoodbury, minnesota 55119us<sep>beall, glenn l.<sep>mueller, john joseph<sep>beall, glenn l.887 s. riverside drivegurnee, illinois 60031us<sep>mueller, john joseph2316 kings circlewoodbury, minnesota 55119us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
dispensing apparatus for a flexible container 12, includ­ ing a closure 14 for the container and an expansible bladder  18 associated with the closure and adapted to fit within the  container to expand and displace the dispensed contents.   the closure 14 has two openings, one 23 at which it is  attached to the container and the other 20 forming an outlet  for dispensing.  a conduit 17 extends from the bladder into  the closure and communicates to the exterior of the closure  and container through one of the two openings 20, 23.  the  outlet opening 20 is constructed to allow the contents to flow  only in a direction from the container during use and a check  valve 22 allows flow through the conduit only into the blad­ der.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
description this invention relates to dispensers and more specifically to structure that converts a flexible, resilient, con taper into a squeeze-type dispenser in which a flexible bladder within the container receives ambient displacement fluid when contents of the container is dispensed. this invention is an improvement over the devices disclosed and claimed in u.s. patent nos. 3,319,837 issued may 16, 1967 entitled "dispensing device" and 3,656,660 issued april 18, 1972 entitled "closure member and dispensing device." the structures disclosed in those patents utilize a bladder within a flexible, resilient, container to receive and contain displacement fluid such as air that flows into the container after contents has been dispensed by squeezing. valves associated with the dispensing outlet and air inlet, operable in response to pressure differentials, assure that displacement fluid only enters the bladder, which then maintains the remaining contents at the dispensing outlet, in effect maintaining the container always "full" until empty. the disclosed structures have the disadvantage of requiring a separate inlet to the container to facilitate keeping the displacement fluid separate from the contents. as a result, special containers must be made or closures are required that have an extra inlet and different appearance from caps of dispensers lacking the advantageous features of the patented devices. the use of a special container is particularly disadvantageous and was avoided by the closure member disclosed in said patent 3,656,660. however, the closure member disclosed included sub stantial structural modifications and additional apparatus, including a housing for a collapsed bladder, a separate aperture communicating to the bladder, and flexible fingers to constrain the bladder during expansion. this structure has not proved as practical from a produc tion and marketing standpoint as desired. in addition, the dispensing valve structure in the disclosed dispensers interfered with the flow of the dispensed contents, which did not flow in a well defined stream. while that disadvantage can be overcome by recessing the valve from the outlet opening, dispensed material may accumulate in the outlet beyond the valve and harden into a plug and/or become unsanitary, depending upon the nature of the material. the present invention is exemplified by structure that supports a flexible displacement bladder for a flexible resilient container centrally of a dispensing closure member and that provides a valved inlet passageway to the bladder through one of the two inherent openings of the closure member; i.e., through the opening at which the closure member is attached to the container, or through the dispensing opening. the bladder is constructed to expand within the container from an inflow of displacement fluid to maintain the contents adjacent the dispensing opening. the dispensing opening of the closure member is constructed to permit only outflow of contents from the container, for example, by incorporating a one-way valve or by being capable of retaining a portion of a viscous contents as a plug. conduit-forming structure provides an inlet passageway that communicates between the bladder and the outside of the closure member through either the juncture between the closure
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims    1. in a dispensing apparatus for a flexible container, including:  a closure 14 having first and second openings 23, 20, said closure constructed to be secured at the first opening to a flexible container 12 to cover an opening 13 of the container,  the second opening 20 in the closure being a discharge passage through which contents of a container 12 to which the closure is secured can be dispensed, said closure being constructed to allow flow through the second opening only in a direction from the container during use,  an expansible bladder 18,  a conduit 17 within the closure to the bladder, providing an inlet opening to the bladder, and  a check valve 22 to allow flow through the conduit only into the bladder during use,  the improvement wherein the conduit 17 to the bladder communicates through one of said first and second openings 23,  20 to the exterior of the closure 14 and the exterior of a container 12 to which the closure is secured.    2. a dispensing apparatus as set forth in   claim    1 wherein said conduit 17 is at least in part defined by a member 16 within but separate from said closure.      3. a dispensing apparatus as set forth in claim 2 wherein said member 16 supports the bladder 18 centrally of the closure and in part extends in a direction across said first opening 23,  4. a dispensing apparatus as set forth in claim 2 or 3 wherein said check valve 22 is within said member 16.    5. a dispensing apparatus as set forth in claim 3   herein    said check valve 22 is   within.    said member 16, the part 46 of said conduit 17 in the portion of said member extending in a direction across the first opening is straight, and the check valve includes a movable sealing part 60 extending into said straight portion of the conduit.    6. a dispensing apparatus as set forth in any of claims 2-5 wherein said member 16 includes an annular portion 40 constructed to function as a washer between a closure and a container, a central portion 45 having an opening 44 and means 50 for coupling the expansible bladder at said opening to the member, a transverse portion 41 extending between the annular portion and the central portion, and a passageway 17 in said member   communicating    between an outer surface 51 of the member and the opening of the central portion.      7. a dispensing apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein the improvement comprises structure 16 located within the closure that has (a) passageways isolated from each other, at least a first of which allows material to flow from the container to the discharge opening and a second 17 of which allows air to flow from outside the closure and container to within (b) a check valve 22 cooperating with said second passageway permitting flow therethrough only into the closure and container and (c) means 45 to support the expansible bladder within the container.    8. in a dispensing apparatus as set forth in claim 7 the improvement wherein said structure provides a seal 40a, 40b between the closure and container to prevent the contents from escaping through other than the discharge opening and to prevent air from entering through other than the second passageway.    9. a dispensing apparatus as set forth in any of claims 2-5 wherein said member 16 has a support portion 40 constructed to be secured between the closure and the container to which the closure is attached in use.    10. a dispensing apparatus as set forth  ,-t in claim 9 wherein said support portion 40 is annular and has surfaces 40a, 40b that form a seal between the closure and the opening of a container to which the  '.# #####h##    11. a dispensing apparatus as set forth in either of claims 9 or 10 wherein said member 16 includes a post 30 connected to the support portion 40, said post having first and second portions, the first portion 45 constructed to engage said bladder and the second portion comprising an end of the post, a passage 46 from the post to the support portion opening at one end through the support portion and at the other end through the first portion of the post, said oneway inlet valve 22 cooperating with said passage to limit flow therethrough to a direction from the said one passage end toward the other passage end,  and a spout 26 about said second portion of the post movable longitudinally thereof, said spout having a discharge opening 19 adjacent the said end of the post and a surface 21 about said discharge opening constructed to seat against the post, and means 32 yieldably biasing said spout into seating engagement with the post, said post and spout forming said discharge valve.    12. a dispensing apparatus as set forth in claim 11 wherein the spout 26 is a part of the closure and at least a part 32 of the closure is flexible to permit said longitudinal movement of the spout.    13. a dispensing apparatus as set   forth    in any of claims 1-12 wherein said closure 14 is thread   ed    at the first opening 23 for securing it to a threaded container to cover an opening of the container and wherein said conduit communicates   through    the first  opening of the closure to the exterior of the closure# through a passage 59 along the threads 58 of the closure at the first opening.     14. a dispensing apparatus as set forth in claims 10-12 wherein said conduit 17 opens through the second opening 20 of the clsoure.    15. a dispensing apparatus as set forth in any of the preceding claims including an open-receptacle 90 attached to said closure and wherein said second opening 20 communicates with the interior of said receptacle, whereby contents of the container is maintained at the second opening by the bladder during use, the receptacle can be filled from the container without tilting, and the contents from the receptacle   cansbe    poured without pouring from the container.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
