<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0011444
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800528
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
G06F-17/40 B60R-25/10 G08B-25/00 G08B-25/10 G08B-13/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
security system
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
lloyd william <sep>lloyd, william<sep>lloyd, william "the alamo" powder works lane melling merseyside gb<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
lloyd william<sep>lloyd, william<sep>lloyd, william"the alamo" powder works lanemelling merseysidegb<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
the system is especially intended to protect commercial motor vehicles, and provides in each vehicle at least one sensor (1 min ) for instance, sensing, when activated, intrusion in or movement of the vehicle, connected to a memory (1) storing predetermined data relating to the vehicle e. g.  registration number, load being carried and intended destination.  the memory is arranged automatically to feed out the relevant data when the sensor is actuated by the intrusion or movement of the vehicle.  this data is then fed to a radio frequency modulator (2) comprising a mulitiplexer and the modulated carrier is fed to a transmitter (3).  the sensor, memory, modulator and transmitter are all provided in each vehicle.  the transmitter automatically transmits the data to a relay (8), and the relay automatically transmits to a central receiver (10) which via a demodulator demultiplexer (13) operates a v. d. u (visual display unit 14) so that appropriate action can be taken in response to the received data. 
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
description "security system" the resent invention relates to a security system for use at a plurality of fixed locations e.g. in enclosures such as buildings, or in a plurality of nobile locations such as in freight containers and on vehicles, such as notor vehicles and aircraft. machine control systems are knosm employing computers storing predetermined data and providing a read-out of such data in response to the detection by a sensor of a specified occurrence. it is also known, in data processing, toprovide for the visual display of received and stored data and to store received data which is displayed or to be displayed. security systems are also known using a plurality of sensors e.g. t.v. cameras, feeding signals to a central control station for the purpose of monitoring some given thing such as the surroundinss of the exterior of a buildings or an industrial process. alarm systems are also known which on the occurrence of a given condition e.g. an intrusion, automatic- ally provide an alarm signal. it is known in particular to provide such systems in motor vehicles and especially in goods vehicles. the present invention is based on the idea of providing at each of a plurality of locations at which security protection or monitoring is to be provided, stored infonation identifying the location, and of arranging for the stored information automatically to be transmi#-#-od to a central station on the occurrence of a specified event or events, the central station indicating reception of all transmitted information to enable appropriate action to be tciten. thus, an object of the present invention is to provide a security system which permits a large number of widely dispersed locations to be surveilledfroma central station by arranging that the surveillance is given only on demand from each location as and when the need therefor arises. this limits the attention the central station need give, to that location or those locations in respect of which some action is currently needed. the present invention provides a security system comprising a memory sited at a location to be monitored, holding predetermined data relating to the location, a sensor associated azith the memory; the memory being arranged automatically to provide a read-out of the data on actuation of the sensor in response to the occurrence of a specified event, and a remote indicator to receive a memory read-out and provide an indication of the nature thereof; wherein a transmission link is provided to transmit data read-out from the memory to the indicator; the link comprising; a data transmitter located at said location, and a receiver for transmitted data located at the site of indicator to feed data thereto. the content of the predetermined data will depend on the particular use of thè security system. for instance, if it is to be used as an anti-theft system on a commercial vehicle, the message may provide information concerning the registration number of the vehicle, its load, its intended destination and any other fact which it is considered
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
   cixile         1.      4 security    system   comprising    a memory sited at a location to be monitored, holding predetermined data relating to the location, a sensor associated with the   memory,    the memory being arranged automatically to provide a read-out of the data on actuation of the sensor in response to the occurrence of a specified event, and a remote indicator unit to receive a memory read-out and provide an indication of the nature thereof; characterized in that a transmission link   (103,    104; 4, 9,   10)    is provided to transmit data read-out from the memory (102,1) to the indicator (105,14);  the link comprising a data transmitter (103,3) located at said location, and a receiver (104, 9, 10) for transmitted data located at the site of indicator to feed data.   thereto.    2. a security system as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that said transmitter (103, 3) and receiver   (104;      9,10)    are constituted as a radio transmitter and receiver respectively.    30 a security system as claimed in. claim   1    characterized in that a relay (18) is provided. remotely located from said receiver   (9,10)    to relay a transmission from said transmitter (3) and relay it to said receiver (9,10).    4. a security system as claimed in any of the preceding claims, characterized in that a plurality of memories are used at respective   locations    to be monitored or protected each with associated transmitter, (103, 3) and an associated sensor (101,1') or sensors to detect a given condition, and each memory   (1us,    1) stores a predetermined message in respect of each given condition indicating the occurrence thereof; the actuation of a sensor of any memory causing an automatic read-out of the respective   ntessa    from the memory and thereby  its transmission to said indicator unit (105, 14).    5. a security system as claimed in claim 4, characterized in that, the transmitter (3) comprises a multiplexer (2), and the receiver (9,10) comprises a demultiplexer (13) whereby the   transmission-may    be made, for instance, by time sharing or frequency shift.    6. a security system as claimed in any of the preceding claims, characterized in that, the system comprises, in respect of the or each location, a communication channel (5,6) to permit a transmission to be made   othemfise    than from the memory (1) so that the system may additionally be used   as a    means of routine communication between the site of the memory and the receiver   (104).        7. a security system as claimed in claim 6, characterized in that, the additional communication channel   (5,6)    comprises a manual data encoder (5) operating through a random access memory (6) of feed data to the transmitter (3).    8. a security system as claimed in any of the preceding claims, characterized in that the indicator   anit    (14) is a v.d.u (visual display unit).    9. a security system as claimed in any-of the preceding claims, characterized in that the or each memory is an addressable, programmable read only memory (1).    10. a security system as claimed in claim 9,   characterised    in that the store (15) is provided and is arranged automatically to store any displayed message.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
