<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0011457
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800528
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<main>F23C-11/04</main> F23R-7/00 F23C-15/00 F24H-1/20 F24H-9/18 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
pulse combustion apparatus.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
kitchen john a<sep>kitchen, john a.<sep>kitchen, john a.r.r.no. 3hastings ontario, k0l 1yoca<sep>kitchen, john a.<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
kitchen john a<sep>kitchen, john a.<sep>kitchen, john a.r.r.no. 3hastings ontario, k0l 1yoca<sep>kitchen, john a.<sep>kitchen, john a.r.r.no. 3hastings ontario, k0l 1yoca<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a pulse combustion heater includes a combustion  chamber (218) and at least one exhaust pipe (110) forming a  resonant system with the chamber.  in one aspect of the  invention, the combustion chamber has an internal cavity of  flattened spherical shape and the exhaust pipe debouches  tangentialiy into it on its median plane, which causes com­ bustion gases returning to the combustion chamber to flow  into said cavity in a double toroidal flow pattern.  the fuel  mixture entry into the chamber is at one end so that it enters  along the axis of the double toroid.  in another aspect, the  primary exhaust pipe (110) which is of a length selected so  that combustion of gases is at least substantially complete  before the gases leave the pipe.  the pipe (110) terminates at  a manifold (146) to which is connected a plurality of heat  exchange coils (154) of helical shape from which heat is  transferred to a fluid circulated around the coils.  according  to another aspect of the invention, the heater has a three part  housing, upper (226) and lower (230) parts of which are con­ crete castings and define respectively an air cushion  chamber (204) and an exhaust chamber (210) of the heater.  a  centre selection (228) forms part of a boiler sub-assembly  which isolates the exhaust chamber from the air cushion  chamber.  in another aspect, a unitary gas cushion chamber  sub-assembly (214) is described.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
this invention relates to pulse combustion apparatus and to heaters of the pulse combustion type. a pulse combustion apparatus conventionally includes a combustion chamber and an exhaust pipe which forms a resonant system with the combustion chamber. at each cycle of the apparatus, a fuel charge is admitted to the combustion chamber and is ignited. the charge expands into the exhaust pipe causing a partial vacuum transient in the combustion chamber which both assists drawing in a fresh charge, and causes high temperature s- to be drawn back into the combustion chamber from the exhaust pipe. the fresh fuel charge spontaneously ignites establishing the next cycle and the apparatus is selfsustaining after initial ignition. in a heater of the pulse combustion type, a fluid to be heated is brought into heat exchange relationship with the exhaust pipe. my united states patent no. 3,267,985 disclose= -- pulse-combustion-type heater in which the combustion chamber has substantially the shape of two conical shells joined together at their major diameters along a common line of juncture. five exhaust pipes are coupled to the combustion chamber for heating and are disposed in a chamber through which water is circulated. while this form of combustion chamber and exhaust system has been found to provide a very stable combustion cycle, the present invention is aimed at providing further improvements intended to enhance performance. according to one aspect of the invention a pui combustion apparatus is provided and includes a combustion chamber, at least one exhaust pipe forming a resonant system with the combustion chamber, means for admitting successive fuel charges to said chamber, and ignition mean operable to initiate combustion in the chamber. the combustion chamber has an internal cavity of a shape whi, extends about a median plane, which is circular in said plane, and which curves generally inwardly from botn of said plane around its entire periphery, towards firs and second ends of the cavity. an inlet is providec at one of said ends, through which successive fuel chancres can enter the combustion chamber from said fuel charge admitting means in a direction generally normal to said median plane of the combustion chamber. the combustion chamber also includes an exhaust gas outlet disposed in said median plane. the exhaust pipe is coupled to said exhaust gas outlet and extends from the combustion chamber generally tangentially with respect to said cavity. as a result of the combustion chamber shape and the arrangement of the exhaust pipe, combustion gases returning to said combustion chamber under the effect of a vacuum transient in the chamber are caused to flow into said cavity in a double toroidal flow pattern into which a subsequent fuel charge enters generally centrally from said combustion chamber inlet. in order that the invention may be more clearly understood, reference will now be made to the accompanying drawings which illustrate a number of preferred embodiments of the invention by way of example, and in which: figure 1 is a vertical sectional view through a pulse
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:   1. a pulse combination including a combustion chamber, at least one exhaust pipe forming a resonant system with said chamber, means for admitting successive fuel charges to said chamber and ignition means operable to initiate combustion in said chamber; characterised in   thal    the combustion chamber (22,218) has an internal cavity (96,96') which extends about a median plane (98,98') said cavity being of a shape which is circular in said plane and which curves generally inwardly from both sides of said plane around its entire periphery towards first (100) and second (102) ends of said cavity;  the combustion chamber (22,218) further including an inlet (104) at one of its said ends, through which successive fuel charges can enter said combustion chamber (22,218)   e om    said fuel charge admitting means (24,24') in a direction generally normal to said median plane (98,98') of the combustion chamber; and at least one exhaust gas outlet (106,106') disposed in said median plane; an exhaust pipe (110) being coupled to a said exhaust gas outlet (106) and extending from the combustion chamber generally tangentially with respect to said cavity; whereby combustion gases returning to said combustion chamber under the effect of a vacuum transient in the chamber at each cycle of the apparatus are caused to flow in a double toroidal flow pattern in said cavity and a subsequent fuel charge enters said flow generally centrally from said combustion chamber inlet.   2. an apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the combustion chamber cavity (96) is of flattened, generally spherical shape with its maximum diameter disposed in said median plane.       3. an apparatus as claimed in ciairr 1, wherein s ia     combustion chamber cavity (96') is defined by a wall of said combustion chamber which includes a protuberant surface portion encircling said cavity in said median plane and arranged to positively separate combustion gases returning to said chamber into two discreet toroidal flow paths.   4. an apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein said exhaust pipe or pipes is or are of a length selected so that, in use, combustion of gases is at least substantially complete before the gases leave said pipe(s).   5. an apparatus as claimed in claim 4, wherein said exhaust pipe (110) forms a primary pipe of an exhaust system (26,220) further comprising: a- manifold (146) having an inlet to which the primary exhaust pipe is coupled, and a plurality of outlets (152a,b) spaced around the manifold; and a corresponding plurality of heat exchange coils (154) each in the form of a hollow tube shaped to define a helix of substantially constant diameter extending about a longitudinal axis and having an inlet coupled to one of said manifold outlets, and an outlet (154a); said coils (154) being arranged around said manifold (146) with their longitudinal axes generally parallel to one another.   6. a pulse combustion apparatus which is a heater comprising: a housing, a combustion chamber within the housing having an inlet and an outlet, means for admitting successive fuel charges to said chamber through said inlet, ignition means operable to initiate combustion in said chamber; and an exhaust system forming a resonant system with the chamber, characterised in that a primary exhaust pipe (110) having first and second ends is coupled to the combustion chamber (22,218) at its  first end so as to extend generally tangentially from the combustion chamber, and is of a length selected so that combustion of gases is at least substantially complete before the gases leave said pipe; a manifold (146) having an inlet to which the second end of the primary exhaust pipe is coupled and a plurality of outlets   '15tab)    spaced around the manifold;  and a corresponding plurality of heat exchange coils (154) each in the form of a hollow tube shaped to define a helix of substantially constant diameter extending about a longitudinal axis and having an inlet coupled to one of said manifold outlets, and an outlet (154a); said coils being arranged around said manifold with their longitudinal axes generally parallel to one another; a heat exchange chamber (36,228) in said housing containing said heat exchange coils (154) , the chamber having an inlet and an outlet for fluid to be heated; and an exhaust chamber (40,210) in the housing communicating with the outlets of said heat exchange coils and having an outlet (90,266) for exhaust gases.   7. an apparatus as claimed in claim 5 or claim 6, wherein said heat exchange coils (154) are arranged around said manifold in pairs with the turns of the respective coils in each pair in vertically staggered relationship and inter leaved with one another so that the heat exchanger formed by said coils occupies minimum space.   8. an apparatus as claimed in claim 7 wherein the coils (154l, 154r) in each pair are formed as respective left and right hand windings of identical shape, and wherein the manifold outlets (152a,b) to which the coils are coupled are vertically staggered to provide for said interleaving of the turns of the respective coils.   9. an apparatus as   clalined    in claim 8 wherein   the     exhaust system includes first and second series of said coils, the coils in each said series being arranged in an annular configuration with the coils (154') of said second series surrounding the coils (154) of said first series and connected to said manifold by inwardly extended inlet end portions of the relevant coils.   10. an apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 5 to 9 wherein each of said primary exhaust pipes and said heat exchange coils is internally coated with lead.   11. a pulse combustion apparatus which is a heater comprising a combustion chamber with ignition means, at least one exhaust pipe forming a resonant system with the chamber, and a housing, characterised in that the housing includes three housing sections of tubular form coupled together in a vertically stacked arrangement and comprising a top housing section (226) defining an air cushion chamber, a centre housing section (228) defining a heat exchange chamber, and a bottom housing section (230) defining an exhaust chamber, said top and bottom sections being in the form of concrete castings closed at their upper and lower ends respectively, and said centre section forming part of a boiler sub-assembly further comprising top (274) and bottom (276) boiler heads closing opposite ends of said centre housing section;   the combustion chamber (218) being disposed within said heet exchange chamber of the housing and having an inlet communicating with said air cushion chamber (204), and an outlet with said heat exchange chamber; the exhaust pipe or pipes being disposed in said heat exchange chamber and communicating with the exterior of said housing.   12. an apparatus as claimed in claim 11 wherein each of said housing sections is of hollow cylindrical form, and wherein said top and bottom sections are formed with   annular recesses (234,252) in lower and upper ends thereof respectively, and wherein said centre section (228) is of a diameter such that its upper and lower ends fit into said recesses, the housing further including means coupling said sections together to maintain gastight sealing between the sections.   13. a pulse   co.buston    apparatus comprising a housing defining an air cushion   chamber r    a combustion chamber having an inlet communicating with said air cushion chamber, and an outlet communicating with at least one exhaust pipe forming a resonant system with the chamber characterised in that a unitary gas cushion chamber subassembly (24,288) is disposed in said air cushion chamber (34,204) and includes a hollow gas cushion chamber (134,214) coupled to a supply of combustible gas; a valve plate (126,290) extending across and closing said combustion chamber inlet;  a plurality of gas inlet tubes (132,292) extending upwardly from said valve plate and supporting said gas cushion chamber (134,214) above said plate, each said tube communicating at its lower end with a gas inlet opening in said plate, and each such opening having associated therewith a plurality of air inlet openings (131) communicating with said air cushion chamber; and a plurality of one-way valves disposed in said combustion chamber inlet and each including a corresponding plurality of valve members (140) responsive to pressure in said combustion chamber and movable to close the gas and air inlet openings when combustion pressures exist in said chamber and to open said openings during a vacuum transient for admitting fuel.   14. an apparatus according to claim   10,claim    11 or claim 12 wherein said exhaust pipe forms part of an exhaust system and defines a   primary    exhaust pipe having first  and second ends and coupled to the combustion chamber at its first end so as to extend generally tangentially from the combustion chamber, said primary exhaust pipe being of a length selected so that combustion of gases is at least substantially complete before the gases leave said pipe; and said exhaust system further including a manifold having an inlet to which the second end of the primary exhaust pipe is coupled, and a plurality of outlets spaced around the manifold; and a corresponding plurality of heat exchange coils coupled to said manifold outlets.    15. an apparatus as clamed in any one of claims 11 to 14 further including the features defined in any one of claims 1 to 10.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
