<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0009899
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800416
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
G05D-1/12 F41G-7/24 F41G-7/26 G02B-26/10 F41G-7/20 G02B-27/17 <main>F41G-7/26</main> G01S-1/70 G01S-1/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
a projector for projecting electromagnetic control signals.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
ford aerospace & communicationus<sep>ford aerospace & communications corporation<sep>ford aerospace &amp; communications corporation300 renaissance center p.o. box 43339detroit, michigan 48243us<sep>ford aerospace & communications corporation  <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
stewart jr george william<sep>stewart, jr., george william<sep>stewart, jr., george william2872 stromboli roadcosta mesa california 92626us<sep>stewart, jr., george william<sep>stewart, jr., george william2872 stromboli roadcosta mesa california 92626us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a projector for projecting optical signals for controlling  a missile comprises means for producing two alternately  orthogonally scanned rectangular beams (p,y) from a  single incident beam derived from a single source of laser  radiation (2) and a modulator for pulse modulating said  source at a plurality of pulse rates over first and second  ranges of frequencies corresponding to respective ones of  said two beams.  the beam producing means is formed by  two prism elements (14, 16) relatively movable with  respect to each other by a transducer (12) to cause rotation  of the beams.  a pechan prism (10) with a reversion axis  oriented at 45° with respect to the length of the rectangular  beam is preferred for use as the beam rotator.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
a projector for projecting electromagnetic control signals the present invention relates to the field of information transmission employing an electromagnetic beam projector which supplies coordinate reference information to a remote receiver. nore specifically, the present invention relates to a projector of a type comprising: means for selectively generating a beam of radiation having a generally rectangular crosssectional area; means located to receive said beam of radiation for scanning said beam over at least one predetermined path orthogonal to the length of said beam crosssection; and means located in the path of said scan beam for projecting said beam as two altcrnately scanned beams having said cross-sectional length dimensions orthogonally oriented with respect to each other. in u.s. patent no. 3,398,918 two embodiments of optical systems are proposed for guiding projectiles. in the first embodiment, four fan-shaped beams are independently modulated and projected towards a target and thereby form four optical walls of a pyramidal corridor for guiding projectiles. the size of the downrange corridor is controlled by a servo driven zoom lens arrangement. a projectile launched into this system tends to guide itself by bouncing around inside the corridor. in a second embodiment disclosed in the girault reference, a proportional guidance system provides two perpendicularly oriented beams which sweep in directions perpendicular to each other in order to direct the projectile. in the second embodiment, the two beams are derived from a single light source and optically divided, respectively modulated and projected by a controlled zoom lens type system wherein the optical elements are physically reoriented with respect to each other. an improved electromagnetic radiation beam projector which eliminates the zoom lens system of the prior art and achieves more accurate control of the beam size projected in accordance with a time function has been proposed in our european patent application no. 78300729.7. this projector is used, for instance, in a beam rider missile system, wherein the missile or projectile contains tail sensors which utilize the projected beam of radiation as a means of controlling its directional flight. by determining its relative location within the cross-section of a projected beam pattern, the missile responds by steering itself to seek the centre of the beam pattern. in order to control the flight path of a missile having a known flight profile (distance from launch versus time), it projects a matrix pattern so that the crosssectional area of information is maintained constant over the known flight profile. the projected scan pattern is formed by two alternately scanned and orthogonally oriented beams of radiation which are pulse modulated over respective predetermined ranges of pulse rates to present a plurality of mensurable pulse rates at predetermined relative coordinates, termed "bins", within the defined matrix. a first beam, having a predetermined rectangular cross-sectional area, is projected to that its length dimension is horizontal to a reference and is vertically scanned over a predetermined number of rate values within a first predetermined range of rates during its vertical scan over the predetermined angle. a second beam,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims   1. a projector for projecting electromagnetic controls signals comprising:  a source of electromagnetic radiation controllable to emit a generally rectangular crosssectional beam;  a scanner located to receive said emitted radiation and to scan said radiation over a predetermined angle in a direction orthogonal to the length dimension of said beam cross-section;  a fixed lens optical system located to receive said scanned radiation and to project said emitted radiation in alternate first and second scanned beams having their respective cross-sectional length dimensions orthogonally oriented with respect to each other;  a modulator for pulse modulating said source of radiation at a plurality of pulse rates over first and second ranges of frequencies corresponding to said first and second scanned beams; ;  a scan circuit associated with said scanner for controlling the angle of scan in accordance with a predetermined time variable function; and  means programmed for generating said time variable function and supplying synchronizing signals to said modulator and said scan circuit so that said pulse modulated radiation over said first and second ranges of frequencies occurs within the controlled angle of scan corresponding to respective said first and second projected scanned beams;  characterised in that a beam rotator (10) is provided which includes first and second relatively movable prism elements (14, 16), movement of one of said elements with respect to the other of said elements effecting   n     rotation of the beam (4) in that there is provided means (12) for effecting relative movement of said prism elements (14, 16) between a first state where said prism elements (14, 16) are evenly separated over opposing major optical transmitting faces and a second state where said prism elements (14, 16) are in optical contact along said opposite major faces; and in that circuitry is provided for driving said movement effecting means at a frequency corresponding to said scan frequency.      2.    a projector according to claim 1, characterised in that said first and second prism elements (14, 16) form a pechan prism when said second prism element (16) is in said first state for rotating said incoming beam and forms a non-rotating transmission block when -said -second prism element (16) is in said second state.   3. a projector according to claim 2, characterised in that said formed pechan prism has    0 a reversion axis oriented at an angle of 45 with    respect to the length of said rectangular crosssectional beam (4).   4. a projector for projecting remote control signals which includes:  means for selectively generating a beam of electromagnetic radiation having a generally rectangular cross-sectional area;  means located to receive said beam of radiation for scanning said beam over at least one predetermined path orthogonal to the length of said beam cross-section; and  means located in the path of said scan beam  for projecting said beam as two alternately scanned beams having said cross-sectional length dimensions orthogonally oriented with respect to each other;  characterised in that there are provided  first and second prism elements (14, 16), within said projecting   means,-wherei-n--said--first-    prism element (14) receives and transmits said scanned beam (4) and said second prism element (16) receives and transmits said beam from said first prism element (14);  means for mounting said first and second prism elements (14, 16) for relative movement with respect to each other along said beam path; and  a transducer element (12) on said mounting means (18) for effecting said relative movement of said prism elements (14, 16) between a first position where said prism elements are separated along said beam path and a second position where said prism elements are in optical contact along said beam path.   5. a projector according to claim 5, characterised in that said first and second prism elements (14, 16) form a pechan prism when said prism elements (14, 16) are in said first position and said pechan prism has a reversion axis oriented 450 with respect to the length of   said rootangular    cross-sectional beam to effect   900    rotation of said beam cross-section.    6. a projector according to claim 5, further including means   (160,    161, 162) for driving said transducer element (12) at a constant amplitude predetermined frequency.     7. a projector according to claim 6, wherein said means for projecting said beam as two alternately scanned beams includes a rotatable dither mirror, and a galvanometer for rotating the dither mirror, characterised in that a drive circuit (150, 154, 156) for controlling said galvanometer (7) is provided which is arranged to effect rotation of said dither mirror through a variable angle at a fixed frequency which corresponds to said predetermined frequency at which said transducer element (12) is driven.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
