<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0009922
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800416
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B01D-61/38 C01B-25/46 C22B-60/02 B01D-61/40 <main>B01D-11/04</main> B01D-11/04 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
extraction process using stabilized emulsions.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
occidental res corpus<sep>occidental research corporation<sep>occidental research corporation2100 s.e. main streetirvine, california 92714us<sep>occidental research corporation<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
stewart robert daniel<sep>stewart, robert daniel<sep>stewart, robert daniel17052 e. cajon avenueyorba linda, california 92686us<sep>stewart, robert daniel<sep>stewart, robert daniel17052 e. cajon avenueyorba linda, california 92686us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
an extraction process for transferring at least one species  between a fluid phase and a first liquid phase contacting the  fluid phase with an emulsion of the first liquid phase in a  second liquid phase that constitutes a liquid membrane  permeable with respect to the species to be transferred is  characterised by the feature that the emulsion is stabilized by  the presence therein of at least one particulate solid which is  substantially insoluble in and non-reactve to constituents of  and contained in each of the phases.  preferred solids are  fumed silica and carbon black.  in one embodiment, the phase into which the species is to  be transferred is kept lean with respect to the species to be  transferred.  in another embodiment, mass action is utilized to  maintain a driving force by counter-transport of a different  species.  where all phases are liquid, one phase is regarded as the  bulk phase and the first liquid phase termed the internal phase  is contained in a surrounding membrane of the solids-­ containing second liquid phase, called the external phase.   transfer may be from the bulk to the first liquid phase or vice  versa.  the bulk and internal phases are normally aqueous in  nature.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
"extraction process using stabilized emulsions this inltntion concerns extraction processes for transferring at least one species between a fluid phase (liquid or gaseous) and a first liquid phase by contacting the fluid phase with an emulsion of the first liquid phase dispersed in a second liquid phase that constitutes a liquid membrane permeable to the species to be transferred. a classical method of extracting one or more species from a solution has been the use of a solid membrane that is selectively permeable with respect to such species. a solution containing the species is on one side of the membrane and- a solution lean with respect to such species on the other. the species diffuse through the membrane by osmosis and the like until the species present in the solutions on the two sides of the membrane reach equilibrium. liquid-liquid extraction works on substantially the same principle, but is more flexible. a liquid phase ("extractant"), which is immiscible in another liquid phase (1'bulk phase") from which extraction is to occur and which contains a material selective towards the species to be extracted, is agitated in the bulk phase as a dispersed phase. after a period of contact, the two phases are allowed to separate and the liquid phase containing the extracted species is removed and stripped of the extracted species for recycle. in the usual operation, a plurality of extraction cell are employed in series with the extractant flowing count#r- current to the bulk phase. there has emerged a new field of technoloçr involvilag liquid membrane extraction. broadly, the principle involves surroun: g either a liquid phase frolll which a species is to be extracted, or a liquid phase in which a species is to be collected, by a liquid membrane that is immiscible with the liquid phase. the surrounded liquid phase is called the internal phase and the liquid membrane is called the external phase. the internal phase, so surrounded by the external phase, is contacted with a fluid, liquid or gas, to or from which the species is to be transferred. if the fluid is a liquid, the external phase (liquid membrane) is immiscible with such liquid. the bulk phase containing the species to be removed, whether the fluid or the internal phase, gives up the species to be extracted to the external phase from which it diffuses to the other ("stripping") phase. in the more sophisticated system, the species entering the stripping phase is converted to another form so that the stripping phase remains lean with respect to the extracted species to promote diffusion or species transport and to enable higher levels of extraction ta occur. thus, the liquid membrane serves as an intermediary acting in the same way as an immiscible liquid in liquidliquid extraction, except that it is constantly stripped of the species which it extracts by the liquid stripping phase. illustrative of the patents which have issued in the field of development and application of liquid membrane technology include u.s. patents, 3,389,078; 3,410,794, 3,454,389;
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims   1. an extraction process for transferring at least one species between a fluid phase and a first liquid phase by contacting said fluid phase with an emulsion of said first liquid phase dispersed in a second liquid phase that constitutes a liquid membrane permeable to the species to be transferred, characterised in that said emulsion is stabilized by the presence therein of at least one particulate solid that is substantially insoluble in and substantially nonreactive to the constituents of and contained in said phases.   2. an extraction process according to claim 1, further characterised in that said particulate solid is fumed silica.   3. an extraction process according to claim 1, further characterised in that said particulate solid is carbon black.   4. an extraction process according to claim 1, further characterised in that said particulate solid is a treated clay.   5. an extraction process according to claim 1, 2 or 3,   further    characterised in that said emulsion is additionally stabilized by the presence therein of a liquid   surfactaiit.      6. an extraction process according to any preceding   claims    further characterised in that the phase to   which    said species is transferred is kept lean   iti    respect to said species.   7.   an    extraction process according to claim 6,   fultller      characterised    in   that      tlic      species      end rink      the      please    to  which it is transferred is transformed into a different species towards which the liquid membrane is impermeable.   8. an extraction process according to any one of claims 1 to 5, further characterised in that a further species is counter-transported between the phases to provide mass action driving of the desired species transfer.   9. an extraction process according to any preceding claim, further characterised in that the said liquid membrane contains an extractant or transfer agent specifically active to transfer the desired species.   10. an extraction process according to any preceding claim, further characterised in that the fluid phase is a liquid in which said second liquid phase is immiscible.   11. an   extractionprocess    according to claim 10, further characterised in that said fluid phase and said first liquid phase are aqueous in nature.   12. an extraction process according to any preceding claim, wherein the species to be transferred is uranium.   13. an extraction process according to claim 12, further characterised in   that    uranium in one valence state in a bulk phase is transferred to a stripping phase and therein transformed into a different valence state.   14. an extraction process according to claim 13, further characterised in that the uranium is maintained in its   +4    valent state in the bulk phase by a reductant therein and converted to its +6 valent state in the stripping phase by an oxidant therein.      15.    an extraction process   according    to claim 14, further   characterised      in    that the liquid   iiicnibrane    contains   an     extractant comprising a mixture of di-2-ethylhexylphosphoric acid and trioctylphosphine oxide.   16. an extraction process according to claim 14 or 15, further characterised in that said reductant is ferrous sulphate.   17. an extraction process according to claim 13, further characterised in that the uranium is maintained in its +6 valent state in the bulk phase by an   oxidant    therein and is converted to its +4 valent state in the stripping phase by a reductant therein.    18. an extraction process according to claim 17, further characterised in that the liquid membrane contains an extractant comprising a mixture of   mono-    and di-octylphenyl phosphoric acids.   19. an extraction process according to claim 18, further characterised in that said oxidant is sodium chlorate or hydrogen peroxide.   20. an extraction process according to any one of the preceding claims   acid    wherein the species is to be transferred from said fluid phase to said first liquid phase, further characterised in that the fluid phase is contacted   with    the emulsion for a time sufficient to transfer the species into the liquid membrane, the emulsion and the fluid phase being then separated.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
