<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0005131
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19791031
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
C12N-9/18 <main>C11D-7/42</main> C11D-3/38 C11D-7/22 C11D-3/386 G02C-7/04 G02C-13/00 C11D-7/42 C12N-9/20 C11D-3/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
methods and materials for cleaning soft contact lenses.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
bedding peter michael john<sep>bedding, peter michael john<sep>bedding, peter michael johnullmansväg 2s-434 00 kungsbackase<sep>bedding, peter michael john<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
bedding peter michael john<sep>bedding, peter michael john<sep>bedding, peter michael johnullmansväg 2s-434 00 kungsbackase<sep>bedding, peter michael john<sep>bedding, peter michael johnullmansväg 2s-434 00 kungsbackase<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a cleaning solution for soft contact lenses is described.   the solution differs from previously known solutions in that  it includes a lipolytic enzyme together with a buffering  substance, such as a phosphate.  the cleaning solution  removes any lipids present on the surface of the lens by  splitting them into fatty acids and esters for removal by  subsequent rinsing and, optionally, boiling in physiological  saline solution.  a supplementary cleaning solution comprises, in addition  to the lipolytic enzyme, a proteolytic enzyme, such as  papain or bromelain, such solution providing for complete  removal of all deposits from the surface of the lens.  the  solution of the invention is preferably hypertonic and it is  applied either by using a droplet technique or by introducing  the lens fully into the solution.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
title of invention: methods and materials for cleaning soft contact lenses. technical-field: the present invention relates to methods and materials ior removing from soft contact lenses deposits that are formed during use. such deposits contain mainly albumin globulins and lipids. background art: deposits that occur during use of soft cortact lenses generally result in an opaque film, yellow dis coloration, white spots and thread-like configurations on the lenses. investigations carried out have shown that these deposits can consist of albumin, ig 7-globulin, lysozyme and lipoproteins. the deposits are often largely composed of lipid± also denatured albumin, which are deposited on the lenses from the tear fluid as a result of the saline solution with which the lenses are impregnated being exchanged for the tear fluid. the drying-out of a lens, for instanc through its use in a dry environment and by air flowing past it, etc. causes some albumin to be denature and deposited on the lens. even when contact lenses are terllized by boiling, albumin is denatured which gives rise to apolar interior groups of lipids. other causes too, such as for example continuous use, cause albumin and lipids to be deposited on contact lenses in fairly large quantities. one method of cleaning contact lenses is already known which comprises the steps of dissolving in water a proteolytic enzyme in tablet form and then placing the lenses to be cleaned in the solution for a period of at leest two hours. this process kas been regarded as complicated by the wearers of contact lenses so that cleaning has not always been carried out as regularly as is required and this has resulted in lenses finally acquiring such a coating that the lt.n.c3es iiave become unusable. moreover, t)ie prior art using only proteolyt@@ enzymes does not provide for coniplete removal of the deposits formed in that deposits of lipid origin remain substantially unaffected by the solutions or the prior art. summary of the invention: an object of the present invention is to provide cleaning solutions and methods for cleaning soft contact lenses which, on the one hand are simple for the contact lens wearer to use and which also provide an improved cleaning effect. it is another object to provide cleaning liquids which prevent a general build-up of proteins and lipids. yet another object of the present invention is to provide solid compositions of matter to be dissolved in an aqueous vehicle to form soft contact lens cleaning solutions1 preferably of a hypertonic character. according to one aspect of the invention an enzyme containing cleaning liquid for soft contact lenses consists of 2 solution containing a lipolytic enzyme (mainly for reducing the lipids) and, optionally, a proteclytic enzyme, such as pea pain or bromelain, (for reducing the albumin deposits) and, additionally, a buffering agent, such as a phosphate. such cleaning liquid is preferably hypertonic to its nature, i.e. its osmotic pressure exceeds that of a physiological solution, so that in treatment with the solution some dewatering of the lens takes
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
claims:    1. an   eiizyme    containing liquid for   cleaning      soit    contact lenses consisting of a solution containing a lipolytic enzyme and a phosphate buffer.    2. a liquid according to claim 1, in which the lipase is derived from cand. cylindracae, lyophilised.    3. a liquid according to claim 2 in which there are 100 units of the lipase in 10 ml of   o.lm    phosphate   buffer.       4. a   liquid    according to ally of the preceding claims containing additionally a proteolytic enzyme.    5. a liquid according to claim 4 in which the proteolytic enzyme is papain or   brcmelain.       6. a liquid according to claim 5 consisting of  purified fruit bromelain 50-500 g, e.g. about 100 g  sorbitol 100-1000 g, " " 500 g.    mannitol 10-100 g, " " 50 g.    sodium hydrogen sulphite 8-12 g,   "    " 10 g.    ethylenediaminetetraacetic  acid disodium salt 0.8-1.2 g, " " 1 g.    potassium sorbate 10-1000   ilig,    e.g. " 100   mg.      diluted to 1 litre aqua dest., together with lipase   from    cand. cylindracae, preferably in an amount corresponding to about 50000 units, in 1000 ml. 0.1 m phosphate buffer in an aqueous polymer complex.    7. a liquid according to any of the preceding claims, which is hypertonic.    8. a method of cleaning a soft contact lens by   removing    deposits from   the    surface of the lens by enzymatic   auction    comprising the steps of   a) placing at @ least one drop of a solution containing     a lipolytic enzyme aid in addition, optionally, a  proteolytic enzyme, such as papain or bromelain, on    the surface of the lens which is to be cleaned, to  reduce both the   albumin    and lipids   present    on the  surface to water soluble peptones, and fatty acids  and asters   and    b) subsequently removing the resulting products by  rinsing and boiling the   lens    in a physiological  saline   soluticn.       9. a method as claimed in claim 8 wherein the enzymatic activity of the said solution is of the order or 100 tyrosine units per  g or protein.    10. a method as claimed in claim 8 or 9   in      which    the said at least   one      drcp    of solution   containing    a lipolytic enzyme and, optionally a   proteolytic    enzyme is left on the surface or the lens to be cleaned for a period of about 15 minutes.    11. a method as claimed in any one of claims 8 to 10 wherein the physiological saline solution has a particle size below about 0.2 micron, is isotonic,   hes    a ph-value of   about    7.0 and a buffer capacity of 6-8   ad    is also sterile.    12. a method as claimed in any one of claims   8    to 11 wherein the enzyme solution which is applied to   the    lens consists of bromelain, mannitol, sorbitol, ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid, sodium metabisulphite and a lipase.    13. a method as claimed   in    any ol claims 8 to 11 in   which      the    enzyme solution   consists      of:    purified fruit bromelain 50-500 g,   e.g.    about 100 g.   sorbitol 100-1000 g, " " 500 g.   mannitol 10-100 g,   "      "    50 g.       sodium hydrogen sulphite 8-12 g, " " " 10 g.   ethylenediaminetetraaeetic    acid disodium salt 0.8-1.2 g, " 1 1 g.   potassium sorbate 10-1000 mg, " " 100 mg.     diluted to 1 litre aqua dest., together with lipase from cand. cylindracae, preferably in an amount corresponding to about 50000 units, in 1000 ml. 0.1   m      phosphate      buffer    in an aqueous polymer complex.    14. a method of   cleaning    a soft contact lens comprising the steps of placing the lens in contact with a solution as claimed in any of claims 1-6 for a first specified period of time, rinsing it in a saline solution, removing it and boiling it for a second specified period of time in a saline solution and thereafter rinsing it again in a saline solution.    15. a method as claimed in claim 14 in   which    the first specified period of time is   30    minutes and the second specified period of time is 20 minutes.    16. a method of   cleaning    a soft contact lens comprising the steps   cf    placing the lens in contact   with    a solution as claimed in any of   claims    1-6 for a specified period of time, removing it from the solution and rinsing it in dest. water, heating it in a saline solution to a given temperature for a second specified period of time, subsequently rinsing it in dest. water and thereafter boiling. it in saline solution for a third specified period of time and rinsing it in saline solution.    17. a   method    as claimed in   cairn      16    in which the first specified period of time is 8 to 10 hours, the second specified period of time is 30 minutes, the   given temperature is 400c and tlie third specified    period of time is also 30 minutes.     18. dry composition of matter comprising a lipolytic   enzylre, buffer    and additional substances so as to form,   when    dissolved in water, a hypertonic soft contact lens cleaning   liquid.           19.    composition according to claim 18, further   compriving    a proteolytic enzyme.    20. composition according to claim 19, com   prism    dromelain,   nannitol,    sorbitol, ethylenediamine-   tetraatetic    acid,   sodium    metabisulphite and a lipase.    21. composition according to any of claims 18-20, comprising as a buffer a phosphate buffer.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
