<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0010303
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800430
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
G01D-5/20 G01D-5/12 G08C-19/38 G08C-19/40 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
signal conditioner.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
united airlines incus<sep>united airlines, inc.<sep>united airlines, inc.elk grove village, illinoisus <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
gibson james e us  <sep>gibson, james e.<sep>gibson, james e.455 iris streetredwood city, california 94062us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
there is described a signal conditioner circuit particularly  useful in aircraft instrumentation applications for transform­ ing the signals generated by a second harmonic, saturable  core, angular transducer 10 into two direct current 1,2 signals  containing information giving the angular position of the  transducer which signals may be easily recorded and/or  further processed to give a direct reading of angular position.   the circuit includes two bandpass filters 92,/72 tuned to twice  the frequency of the signal exciting the transducer with each  couped to a tap on the transducer winding.  the outputs of the  bandpass filters are detected by sampling them at times lag­ ging the zero-crossings of the exciting signal by approxi­ mately 45 degrees.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
signal conditioner background of the invention second harmonic, saturable core, angular transducers are well known and have found widespread use particularly in the aircraft instrumentation field for providing a remote indication of the position of a rotatable shaft or some related quantity. such transducers are generally used in pairs and in situations where they can be driven by a common excitation signal. in the usual installation, one transducer of the pair is used as a transmitter and the other as a receiver. the transmitter is coupled to a rotatable shaft and the receiver is coupled to some =pe of rotating pointer or indicator so that any change in the angular position of the shaft at the transmitter will result in a corresponding change in the position of the pointer or indicator. one particular application where such transducers have been used is in the provision to the cockpit crew of a visual indication of the rate of fuel flow to an aircraft engine. such transducers are already in place on many commercial aircraft presently in- use. - with increases in the cost-of-aircraft fuel and an increased desire to conserve such fuel, ;itrcas become desirable to acquire information concerning the rate of fuel flow to aircraft engines in a form such that the information can both be further processed or analyzed and recorded using conveniently available recording apparatus. for example, the fuel flow information might be combined with airspeed information to yield an indication to the cockpit cre of the present miles or knots per gallon or pound of fuel burned. alternatively, the data acquired might be recorded along with numerous other features of interest such as altitude, attitude, outside air temperature, etc., sc t:r.- the data may be subsequently analyzed an compared with t developed at different times during the s@me flight, on different flights of the same aircraft, o flights by different aircraft, etc., to develop and optimize varies flight procedures and operations. it is highly desira;'e, of course, that the necessary information be acquired as inexpensively as possible and, in particular, it is desirable that the data be acquired using instrumentation which is already in place and operational on the aircraft. accordingly, there are provided by this invention signal conditioner circuits for coupling to second harmonic, saturable core, angular transducers which circuits transform the alternating current signals provided by the transducers into direct current signals containing information required to determine the angular position of the transducer. the circuits include bandpass filters for selecting from the transducer outputs the signal components at twice the frequency of the signal driving the transducer and phase sensitive detection circuits to detect the amplitude of the double frequency signals at times fixed with respect to the phase of the signal exciting the transducer. it is an object of this invention to provide a signal conditioner circuit useful with pre-existing second harmonic, saturable core, angular transducers for converting the transducer output signa.ls into direct current signals including twhe anformation required to determine the angular position
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
    clal n'       1. h signal conditioner circuit for use   with    a second harmonic, saturable core transducer comprised of a magnetically saturable core, a magnetic rotor mounted for rotation with respect to said core, and a winding with tap± located thereon disposed about said core and adapted for connection to an excitation signal source providing an alternating current driving signal to said winding at a first frequency, said signal conditioner circuit   comprising:     first electrical filter circuit means having  an input for coupling to a first tap on said  winding and producing at an output thereof a  signal in response to signal components at  twice said first   frequency    present at the  input thereof and suppressing signal compon  ents at said first frequency present at  the input thereof;  and  first phase sensitive detection means for  coupling to said excitation signal source and  coupled to said first electrical circuit  means output for detecting the amplitude of  the signal at said first electrical filter  circuit means output at a phase fixed with  respect to said driving signal.    2. the signal conditioner circuit of claim 1   further    comprising:  second electrical filter circuit means having  an input for coupling to a second tap on said    @    winding and producing at an oupput thereof a  signal in response to signal components at  twice said first frequency present at the  input thereof and suppressing signal  components at said first frequency present  at the input thereof; and  second phase sensative detector means for coupling  to said excitation signal source and coupled  to said second electrical circuit means    output for detecting the amplitude of the  signal at said second electrical circuit  filter means   output    at a phase fixed with  respect to said driving signal.    3. the signal conditioner circuit of   claim    2 wherein   said    first and   could      electrical    filter circuits   comprise    bandpass   filte'3    having a passband including the   @requency    of twice said first frequency.      z.    the   signal    conditioner circuit of claim 2 further   surprising    first circuit means for coupling to said   excitation      signal    source and   removing      b    cancellation aportion of the signal   components    at said first frequency which would otherw s be present   t    the outputs of said first and second electrical   f lter    circuit moans.    5.   a    signal conditioner circuit for use with          second      harmonic,    saturable core transducer comprised of a magnetically saturable core, a magnetic rotor mounted for   @otation      uith    respect to said core, and a winding   with    two taps located thereon disposed about said core and adapted for connection to an excitation signal source providing an   "ternating    current driving signal to said winding at a first frequency, said signal conditioner circuit comprising: :  first electrical amplifier and bandpass circuit  means for coupling to a first tap on said  winding and having a pass band including the  frequency of twice .aid first frequency;  second electrical amplifier and bandpass circuit  means for coupling to a second tap on said  winding and having a pass band including the  frequency of twice said first frequency; and  phase sensative detections means for coupling  to said excitation signal source and outputs  of said first and second electrical amplifier  and bandpass means for detecting the amplitudes  of the signals at the outputs of said first    and second electrical amplifier and bandpass  circuit means at phases fixed with respect   t     said driving signal.    6. the signal conditioner circuit of claim 5 wherein said   detection    phases are at approximately 45 degrees with respect to the zero crossings of said driving signal.    7. the signal conditioner circuit of claim 6 further comprising circuit means for coupling said excitation signal source to said first and second electrical amplifier and bandpass circuit means and removing by cancellation a portion of the signal components at said first frequency which would otherwise be present at the outputs of said first and second electrical amplifier and bandpass circuit means.    8. the signal conditioner circuit of claims 6   wherein    said circuit further comprises bandpass filter an phase shift circuit means having a pass band including said first frequency and shifting the phase of signals at said first frequency applied thereto by approximately 45 degrees for coupling said excitation signal source to said phase sensative detection means.    9. the signal conditioner circuit of claim 8 wherein said phase sensitive detection means further comprises a zero-crossing detector circuit coupled to the output of said bandpass filter and phase shift circuit means and sampling circuit means coupled to the outputs of said zerocrossing detector and said first and second electrical amplifier and bandpass circuit means for sampling the signals at the outputs of said first and second electrical amplifier and bandpass circuit means in response to output signals from said zero crossing detector circuit.      10. the signal conditioner circuit of   claim.         wherein    t   a@d      sampling      circuit    means comprises a first sampler   circuit    coupled to the output of said first electrical amplifier and bandpass circuit means and a second sampler   circuit    coupled to the output of said second electrical amplifier and bandpass circuit means, each sampler sampling the signals applied thereto in response to output signal   fro      ala    zero-crossing detector.     11. the signal conditioner circuit   of    claim io   @@@ther      corpris in    polarity   inverting'    circuit   means      having    an input coupled to said excitation signal source and an output coupled to said first and second amplifier and   bandpass    filter circuit means for providing at said output a signal reversed in polarity from the signal applied to the   it    thereof.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
