<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0014986
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800903
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B62J-6/20 B62J-6/00 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
revolving reflector for bicycles.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
yamaguchi toshiharu<sep>yamaguchi, toshiharu<sep>yamaguchi, toshiharu678 jindaiji-chochofu-shi tokyojp<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
yamaguchi toshiharu<sep>yamaguchi, toshiharu<sep>yamaguchi, toshiharu678 jindaiji-chochofu-shi tokyojp<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
the reflector reflects light dynamically, twinkling and  sparkling  intensely, helping the drivers of approaching cars to  see and recognize the bicycles and its rider quickly, so that  accidents of bicycles can be prevented.  the revolving reflec­ tor comprises a revolving reflector member which is rotated  at least when the bicycle is run, a support member for support­ ing rotatably the reflecting member and an attachment  member for attaching the support member to a desired por­ tion of the bicycle.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
revolving reflectors for bicycles the present invention relates to a revolving reflector for bicycles and the like (hereafter referred to as bicycles), designed to help prevent accident at night by making the bicycles more readily visible to the drivers of cars. there are regulations with respect to the reflectors for use with cars which have done good in preventing car accidents. recently bicycles provided with improper refelectors have become the subject of control of the regulations, but still the accidents of bicycles with cars frequently occur, particularly at night. conventional reflectors for use with bicylces can be roughtly classified into the following three types: (1) first type: reflectors attached to the rear fender (rear mudgurad) of bicycles (2) second type: reflectors and fluorescent tapes attached to the pedals an#d pedal frames of bicycles (3) third type: reflectors attached to the spokes of front wheels and rear wheel of bicycles the above-mentioned reflectors for preventing accidents of bicycles with cars, however, have the following shortcomings: the reflectors of the first type are effective by and large from the viewpooint of the construction of bicycles, if they are properly attached to the rear fender and there is no problem in the angles of incidence and reflection in the reflectors. however, since the reflectors themselves downot-movç,the drivers of approaching cars cannot see and recognize the relectors quickly, for example, under the following circumstances: (a) in a street with colorful signboards and illuminated signboards or on a road which is wet with rain and is illuminated by neon light. (b) in an unilluminated steet or road which is curved and is provided with reflectors for indicating the edges of the street, the height of the reflectors is almost the same as that-of the reflectors of bicycles. (c) under the circumstance of either (a) or (b) mentioned above, when the color of the clothes of the rider of bicycle is similor to the color of the background and the rider is not readily visible to the drivers of cars, for instance, a black coat at night or a white jacket in the street covered with snow. as to the reflectors and fluorescent tapes attached to the pedals and pedal frames of bicycles of the second type, they are rotated together with the pedals and help the drivers of approaching cars to see and recognize the bicycle. however, when the pedals are muddy, their light reflection performance is --reduced significantly. furthermore, when the rider happens to wear shoes which may cover the pedals completely and make the reflectors and fluorescent tapes invisible to the drivers of cars, the the reflectors and fluorescent tapes do not perform their intended function, while the rider does not notice it. those shortcoming cannot be removed from the reflectors and fluorescent tapes of the second type. the reflectors attached to the spokes of the front wheels and rear wheels of bicylces of the third type make greater movement than the reflectors of the second type and are more effective in giving
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
   what is claimed is:         1.    a revolving reflector for bicycles comprising a revolving reflector member which is rotated at least by running the bicycle, a support member for supporting   rotas    ably said revolving reflector member, and an attachment member for attaching said support member to part of said bicycle.   2. a revolving reflector for bicycles as in claim   5    in which said revolving reflector member comprises at least a wind receiving blade, the opposite end portions of which are curved in the opposite directions and at least one side of which has a light reflecting surface.   3. a revolving reflector for bicycles as in   claim" 1    in which said revolving reflector member comprises a propellerlike wind receiving blade, at least one side of which as a light reflecting surface.   4. a revolving reflector for bicycles as in claim 1 in which a shaft of said revolving reflector member is provided with a speed control apparatus for controlling the revolution of said revolving   ref1ector#member.      5. a revolving reflector for bicycles as in claim 1 further comprising a rotation transmission means for transmitting the rotation force of a rotating shaft of the bicyle to said revolving reflector member.   6. a revolving reflector for bicycles comprising a revolving reflector member which is rotated at least by running the bicycle, a support member for supporting rotatably     sasd    revolving member, and an attachment memeber for attaching said   5#p##itt rember    to part of said bicycle, said revolving   reflector      memberdeïng    a cylindrical member having a spiral light reflecting surface with a predetermined width on the peripheral surface thereof, provided with at least a shaft for supporting said support member in a position on the axis of said cylindrical member.   7. a revolving reflector for bicycles as in claim 6 in which at part of said revolving reflector member, there is provided at least a wind receiving member, which is concave in the shape against the wind caused by running   th & icyle.      8. a revolving reflector for bicycles as in claim 6 in which a shaft of said revolving reflector member is provided with a speed control apparatus for controlling the revolution of said revolving reflector member.   9. a revolving reflector for bicycles as in claim 6 further comprising a rotation trransmission means for transmitting the rotating force of a rotating shaft of #the bicycle to said revolving reflector member.   10. a revolving reflector for bicycles comprising a revolving reflector member which is rotated at least by running the bicycle and which comprises a plurality of wind receiving blades, a light reflecting surface of each of said wind receiving blades being shifted in the axial direction of said revolving reflector member, a support member for supporting rotatably said revolving reflector member, and an attachment member for attaching said support member to part of said bicycle.   11. a revolving reflector for bicycles as in claim 10  in which a   shaft    of said revolving   '=reflector      member    is provided with a speed control apparatus for controiling the revolution of said revolving reflector   member.       12. a revolving reflector for bicycles as in claim 10 further comprising a rotation transmission means for transmitting the rotating force of a rotating shaft of the bicycle to said revolving reflector member.   13. a revolving reflector for bicycles comprising a revolving reflector member which is rotated at least   by    running the bicycle and   whid-a serves    as a wind receiving blades whose opposite side portions are curved in opposite directions to each other, a support member for supporting rotatably said revolving reflector member, and an attachment member for attaching said support member to part of-said bicycle.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
