<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0005042
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19791031
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B65H-39/11 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
bin receiver mechanism for a continuous paper sorting machine.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
holliday david hus<sep>ordibel incus<sep>holliday, david h.<sep>ordibel, inc.<sep>holliday, david h.15521-15th neseattle washington 98155us<sep>ordibel, inc.90 park avenuenew york n.y. 10016us<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
clarkson anthony cus<sep>greene ronald w us<sep>holliday david h us  <sep>clarkson, anthony c.<sep>greene, ronald w.<sep>holliday, david h.<sep>clarkson, anthony c.turk hill roadbrewster new york 10509us<sep>greene, ronald w.3116 south 133rd st.seattle washington 98168us<sep>holliday, david h.15521-15th n.e.seattle washington 98155us<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
receiver mechanism for a continuous paper sorting  machine, in which the receiver 10 is comprised of two  columns of inclined side-by-side stacks of paper storage bins  with entrances for receiving paper sheets from a reversible  feeder conveyor 14.  the receiver 10 is mounted on track  means 16 for lateral movement relative to its feeder mechanism  14, such that the bin entrances move past the feeder 14  in a generally vertical plane.  the bins within the receiver 10  are verticaly spaced from each other by a predetermined  distance and are laterally offset by a predetermined amount  of overlap.  the bottom bin of one column is laterally offset  by the same incremental distance from the top bin of the  next column as adjacent bins in one column.  there may be  several receiver modules each including two inclined columns  and they may be detachably secured together.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
"bin receiver mechanism for a continuous paper sorting machine" this invention relates to sheet distributing or sorting devices and more particularly to a receiver apparatus which can continuously receive and sort large numbers of multi-paged documents as copies of a page proceed from a reproducing device such as a printer or copy making machine. this application references copending european patent application no: 79300624.3 filed on evendate herewith for "continuous paper sorting machine" and corresponding to u.s. patent application serial no: 897 272 filed 17th april 1978. prior art paper distributors, sorters and/or collators have encountered many problems. one is that the lare increase in the costs of labour and materials has made it more imperative that the available press or duplicator capacity be utilized to its fullest. in order for the maximum production capability of a printing or copy making machine to be utilized, it is necessary that the sorter have the capacity to receive the printer or copy machine output without loss of press, duplicator or copy making machine time. large capacity sorting machines have been introduced to the market place but they are not continuous. for instance, in some sorters, after a vertical column of trays or bins has been filled, it is necessary to stop the press and shift that filled column away from the feeder and then move an empty column into position. thus, there is a significant amount of press or copy machine production time lost. additionally, time is lost if the bins have to be unloaded on line. the variety of copy sorting jobs sorter/collaters must handle suggests that the receiver should be modular to the extent that if one unit does not have the capacity, additional receiver capacity may be provided without any substantial loss of time or extra handling of the copied material. while smaller collators or sorters are mainly intended for the office market as a necessary adjunct to office copying machinery, larger sorters are more intended for the high production commercial market and for large in-plant reproduction centers, commercial houses and printing departments. these higher volune paper handling installations may be turning out catalogs, maintenance manuals, instruction books, brochures, sales material and perhaps other items such as reports, bid specifications and other large quantity multi-page publications. those skilled in the art will appreciate the savings in labor, time and expense if the reproduction capacity of a particular printing or copying center can be sorted at a rate which is consistent with the copy making capability. ainoiy tulle prior art references which may be considered witll respect to the features of this invention are the following: united states patent nos. 3,420,517; 3,273,882; 3,356,362; 3,848,867; 3,937,459; 3,938,801; 3,740,050; 3,944,217; and 3.963,235. tije devices covered by the above patents do not disclose the structure of this invention. a continuous paper sorting machine in which the receiver with the bin is designed generally in accordance with the teachings of u. s. patent no. 3,938,801 which describes side-by-side stacks of inclined columns of paper receiving
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims    1. a paper copy receiver mechanism for a continuous paper sorter device, in   which    said sorter includes a stationary feeder mechanism with a generally vertically disposed bi-directional feed conveyor including a plurality of   paper    deflector means for directing sheets of paper off said feed conveyor and into said receiver, said receiver, comprising: :  a) a support   fram    including a base section with caster means attached to the bottom of said base for movement of said receiver in a direction generally parallel to said feed conveyor and further including upstanding support frame means for supporting a predetermined equal number of paper receiving bin means in side-by-side columns in such a way that said columns are canted at a preselected angle in the direction of movement of said receiver and which frame means has an entrance side and an unloading side and which sides are generally vertical and parallel to said feed conveyor,  said base   section      incluiil    a releasable drive engaging member,  b) a predetermined number of vertically spaced   apart    bin   means    in each   column    of said frame   means,    each bin means having an entrance and an unloading end and  side edges and   ctt    least said entrance end being substantially  horizontal,  all bins in a column being out of perpendicular  alignment   aloll      their    side   edge    with the bin next above and   )cxt    below by a   predetermined    horizontal index distance  such that the bottom bin of one column is spaced the name     horizontal    index distance from the top bin of the next column,  c) a floor track assembly extending generally at a right angle to said feed conveyor for supporting said receiver mechanism thereon, said track assembly including channel means for guiding said casters along a set path with respect to said feed conveyor, said track assembly further including chain drive means for moving said receiver along said channel means,  said chain drive means including a holding member for releasably engaging said drive engaging member to position said receiver at a preselected position with respect to said chain drive means, and power means for driving said chain.    2. the paper sorter receiver mechanism according to claim 1 and in which each column contains 50 bins such that numerically corresponding bins are horizontally aligned at their entrance ends.    3. the paper sorter receiver mechanism according to claim 2 and in which each bin has a generally upstanding entrance wall extending upwardly to within a preselected distance of the bin next above it to define an entrance   qlonitl'3,       4. the paper sorter receiver mechanism according to claim 1 and in   which    at least a portion of each of said bins tilts   dowslwardly    to assist in the alignment of paper copies into neat stacks.    5. the   paper    sorter receiver   mechanism    according to   claim    4 and in which said bins are provided with cutaway sections extending from the unloading end toward the entrance end such that an unobstructed cavity is defined from the   ldse    to the top of said receiver frame through   each      column    of bins and through which cavity paper arresting   means extend.       6. the paper sorter receiver mechanism according to   claim      l      and    in which said base of said receiver extends generally horizonally in the direction in which the bin columns are   angled    to   torm    a base   extension    and under   which    extension is located caster means.    7. the paper sorter receiver   mechanism    according to   claim    6 and in which said holding member is a transversely   disposed      arm    member secured to the upper run of said chain drive means and in which said releasable drive engaging means is a pivotal fork member for releasably engaging said arm : member for precise positioning of said receiver on said track.      8. the paper sorter receiver mechanism according to  claim 7 and in   which    said pivotal fork member is secured  to an actuator bar having an operator handle which  releasably locks the bar and fork member into operative  engagement with said arm member for positioning of said  receiver, and which actuator bar and operator handle can  be moved so as to disengage said fork member from said  arm member to allow the receiver to be rolled onto or off  said floor track assembly.    9. the paper sorter receiver mechanism according to  claim 1 and in which latching means are provided on said  base section such that at least two receiver mechanisms  can be releasably attached to each other to increase the  number of bins available for sorting operations.    10. a paper copy receiver mechanism for a continuous  paper sorter device, in which said sorter includes a  stationary feeder mechanism with a generally vertically  disposed bi-directional feed conveyor including a plurality  of paper deflector means for directing sheets of paper off  said feed conveyor and into said receiver, said receiver, comprising: :  a) a   support    frame including a base section with    meons      attached    to the bottom of said base for movement of  said receiver in a direction generally parallel to said  feed conveyor and further including upstanding support frame  means for supporting a predetermined equal number of paper receiving bin means in side-by-side columns in such a way that said   columns    are canted at a preselected   ange    in the direction of movement of said receiver and which frame means has an entrance side and an unloading side and which sides are generally parallel to said feed conveyor, said base section including a releasable drive engaging member,  b) a predetermined number of vertically spacedapart bin means in each column of said frame means,  each bin means having an entrance end, an unloading end and side edges and at least said entrance end being substantially horizontal, all bins in a column being out of perpendicular alignment along their side edges with the bin next above it and next below it by a predetermined horizontal index distance such that the bottom bin of one column is spaced approximately the same horizontal index distance from the top bin of the next column, and  c) a floor track assembly extending generally at a right angle to said feed conveyor for supporting said receiver mechanism thereon, said track assembly including guide channel means for guiding said movement means along a set path with respect to said feed conveyor, said track assembly further including drive means for moving said receiver along said guide channel means,   said drive means including a holding member for releasably engaging said drive engaging member to position said receiver at a proselected position with respect to said drive means, and power means for   driving    said drive means.   11. the paper sorter receiver mechanism according  to claim 10 and in   which    there are two   columns    and each column contains 50 bins such that numerically correapondiny bins are   i)orizontally    aligned at their entrance ends.    12. the paper sorter receiver mechanism according to claim 11 and in which each bin has a generally upstanding entrance wall extending upwardly to within a preselected distance of the bin next above it to define an entrance opening.    13.   the      pdper    sorter receiver mechanism according to claim 10 and in which at least a portion of each of said bins tilts downwardly to assist in the alignment of paper copies into   neat    stacks.      14.    the   paper    sorter receiver mechanism according to claim 13 and in which said bins are provided with cutaway sections extending from the unloading end toward the entrance end such that an unobstructed cavity is defined from   tiie    base to the top of said receiver frame through   each      columns    of bins and through   which    cavity paper arresting   means    extend.      15. the paper sorter receiver   mechanism    according to   claim    10   aiid    in which said base of said receiver extends generally horizontally in the direction in which the bin columns are angled to form a base extension and under which extension is located caster means.    16. the paper sorter receiver mechanism according to claim 15 and in which said holding member is a transversely disposed arm   member    secured to said drive means and in which said releasable drive engaging means is a pivotal fork member for releasably engaging said arm member for precise   positioning    of said receiver on said track.    17.   tiie    paper sorter receiver mechanism according to   claim    16 and in which said pivotal fork member is secured to an actuator bar having an operator handle which releasably locks the bar and fork member into operative engagement   with,    said arm member for positioning of said receiver, and which actuator bar and operator handle can be   moved    so as to   disengage    said fork member from said   ariii    member to   dllow    the receiver to be rolled onto or off said floor track assembly.       lfl.      tiie      j)'il)er    sorter receiver mechanism according to   claim    10   and    in which latching means are provided on said base section such that at least two receiver mechanisms can be releasably   attached    to each other to increase the number of bins available for sorting operations.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
