<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0006366
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800109
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
B65D-19/00 <main>B65D-19/28</main> 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
pallet construction.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
extrados co ltdca<sep>extrados company limited<sep>extrados company limited54 carnforth roadtoronto ontarioca<sep>extrados company limited  <sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
svirklys ferdinand m<sep>svirklys, ferdinand m.<sep>svirklys, ferdinand m.54 carnforth road toronto, ontariocaca<sep>svirklys, ferdinand m.<sep>svirklys, ferdinand m.54 carnforth road toronto, ontariocaca<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
a metal pallet comprises overlying deck-board pa­ nels (14, 116) and transversely directed stringer elements  (12, 114).  the elements are interconnected through one-­ piece spring steel clips (46, 112) mounted to the deck-­ board panels (14, 116) and received through transverse  slots (18, 20; 134) in the stringer elements (12, 114).  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
title invention steel pallet construction field of invention the present invention relates to pallets. background to the invention pallets constructed of steel have considerable advantages in that they exhibit substantially constant dimension and substantially constant weight, rendering them of considerable utility in high rise storage systems and automated systems, and have considerable durability and weather resistance. steel pallets are non-combustible,in contrast towood, and are lighter than wood for the same dimensions. wood is also disadvantageous in that it absorbs moisture and is subject to degradation. steel is also attractive as a material of construction, in that it is relatively inexpensive when compared with aluminum and plastic. despite these inherent advantages, steel pallets have not come into common usage, and those steel pallets that have been marketed have been heavy, cumbersome and timeconsuming to produce, the elements being interconnected by welding. sutn2ry of invention the present invention is primarily concerned with a steel pallet construction in which the elements are readily formed by suitable metal forming techniques, preferably roll forming, and may be rapidly interconnected using uniquely-constructed one-piece spring clips. the unique constructional features, however, may be used in other assemblies and with pallets formed of other materials of construction. brief description of drawings figure 1 is a perspective view of a single-deck 4-way steel pallet constructed in accordance with one embodiment of the invention; figure 2 is a close-up exploded view of the interlocking of the stringer and deck elements of the pallet structure of figure 1 along with details of the structure of the interconnecting clips; figure 3 is a sectional view taken along line iii iii of figure 2 in a disassembled position; figure 4 is the same sectional view as figure 3 but in an assembled position; figure 5 is a perspective view of a double-deck 4-way steel pallet constructed in accordance with a second embodiment of the invention; - figure 6 is a close-up detail view of the interlocking of the elements of the pallet structure of figure 5 along with details of the structure of the interlocking clips; ; figure 7 is a partial sectional view of the assembled pallet taken along line vii-vii of figure 5; and figures 8, 9 and 10 are respectively perspective, elevation and end views of the clips used in the pallet structure of figures 5 to 7. description of preferred embodi,nsents referring first to the embodiment of figures 1 to 4 of the drawings, a pallet 10 constructed of, preferably light gauge, steel, preferably corrosion resistant steel, for example, galvanized steel, includes three elongate hollow members or stringer elements 12 and a plurality of deck-forming elongate roll-formed elements 14 joined to the upper surface 16 of the stringer elements 12 at each intersection thereof and spaced apart in relation to each other and generally perpendicular to the stringer elements 12. the deck-forming elements 14 cooperate to provide a loadcarrying deck on the top side of the pallet 10. the stringer elements 12 may be formed by welding together roll-formed
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
    claims      i. a pallet constituted by parallel spaced-apart stringer elements, deck-forming elements extending transverse to the stringer elements, and clips connecting the stringer elements and deck-forming elements at each intersection thereof, each clip being mounted to one of the elements and extending in non-releasing manner through a slot formed in the other of the elements.   2. a pallet as claimed in claim 1, in which   thd    stringer elements and deck-forming elements are formed from steel and the clips are of one-piece construction and formed from spring steel.   3. a pallet as claimed in claim 2, in which the stringer elements and the deck-forming elements are formed by roll-forming.   4. a pallet as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3, in which each stringer element includes a continuous elongate planar portion extending the length thereof and three hollow portions of generally rectangular cross-section with the longer dimension thereof positioned upright and located one at each end of the continuous portion and the other approximately at the mid-point in the length thereof.   5. a pallet as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4, in which the clips are mounted to inwardly-directed flanges of the deck-forming element and the slots are formed in the upper surface of the stringer elements.   6. a pallet as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5, in which each clip includes opposed jaws for mounting the clip to the deck-forming member, a u-shaped-body for extending through the slots in the stringer elements, and resilient ramp elements cantilevered outwardly and upwardly from the side walls of the u-shaped body and including inwardlyextending portions for inhibiting removal of the u-shaped body through the slots.   7. a pallet as claimed in claim 6, in which each slot includes a wider portion between narrower end portions and the inwardly-extending portions engage the edges of the widened portions of the slot.     8. a pallet substantially as hereinbefore described   with,neference    to, and as   villustrated    in, figures 1 to 4 of the accompanying drawings.   9. a pallet substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to, and as illustrated in, figures 5 to 7 of the accompanying drawings.      '10.    a one-piece sheet metal clip for attaching two panels in overlying relation, comprising a generally ushaped body, a pair of inwardly facing jaws at the ends of the body side walls, and a cantilevered ramp member formed from each of the walls and extending outwardly of the walls, each ramp member having a shoulder and an inwardlydirected portion extending towards the jaws.   11. a clip as claimed in claim 10, in which the inwardly-directed portion terminates in the plane of the adjacent flange of the jaw.   12. a clip as claimed in either claim 10 or 11, in which the jaws include outwardly divergent wing elements.   13. a clip as claimed in any one of claims 10 to 12, in which the u-shaped body includes cut-aways adjacent the bight portion thereof.   14. a clip as claimed in any one of claims 10 to 13, in which the ramp elements include outwardly-directed locking tabs.   15. a one-piece sheet metal clip substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to, and as illustrated in, figures 1 to 4 of the accompanying drawings.   16. a one-piece sheet metal clip substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to, and as illustrated in, figures 8 to 10 of the   accompanying" drawings.      17. an assembly of elements, comprising a first panel having an elongate slot formed therein having a first width adjacent the ends thereof and a second width at least equal to the first between the ends thereof, a second panel having a second slot formed therein and defining a short strip with a spaced edge, the slots being of equal length, and a onepiece spring metal clip assembling the first and second panels in overlying relation, the metal clip having a generally u-shaped body portion of a length substantially  equal to the length of the slots extending through the first slot;  the metal clip having a pair of inwardly-facing jaw members at the free ends of the body walls resiliently gripping the short strip therebetween, the metal clip also having a cantilevered ramp member formed from each side wall including a first portion extending outwardly from the bight portion to a shoulder and a second portion extending inwardly from the shoulder towards the side wall to retain the first panel between the second portion and the lower flange of the adjacent jaw element.    18. an assembly as claimed in claim 17, in which the first slot has a first width adjacent the ends thereof substantially the width of the clip body and a wider width between the ends less than the distance between the shoulders and of a length substantially equal to the length of the ramp members, and the second portion of each ramp member of the clip extends to terminate in the plane of the lower flange of the jaw element in engagement with the edges of the wider width portion.   19. an assembly as claimed in either claim 17 or 18, in which the spaced edge of the short strip is defined by a notch formed in second panel.   20. an assembly of element substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to, and as illustrated in, either   fiyures    1 to 4 or figures 5 to 8 of the accompanying drawings.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
