<DOC>
<DOCNO>
EP-0009836
</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<DATE>
19800416
</DATE>
<IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
C01B-33/00 B01J-3/04 C04B-28/20 C04B-28/18 C04B-40/00 B01J-3/02 C01B-33/24 C04B-28/00 <main>C04B-15/06</main> 
</IPC-CLASSIFICATIONS>
<TITLE>
batch process and apparatus for forming a reaction product such as calcium silicate.
</TITLE>
<APPLICANT>
warrior insulation nl <sep>warrior insulation company b.v.<sep>warrior insulation company b.v.pieter de keyserstraat 10nl-7825 ve emmennl<sep>warrior insulation company b.v.<sep>
</APPLICANT>
<INVENTOR>
krijgsman pieter<sep>krijgsman, pieter<sep>krijgsman, pieterlindenhof, groteweg 10nl-8191 jw wapenveldnl<sep>krijgsman, pieter<sep>krijgsman, pieterlindenhof, groteweg 10nl-8191 jw wapenveldnl<sep>
</INVENTOR>
<ABSTRACT>
calcium silicate insulation is formed by a process which  involves the transfer of the calcium silicate crystals from an  autoclave to a holding vessel at a flow rate selected to  minimize or prevent damage to the reaction product and  through a flow passage such that heat can be removed from  the reaction product to stabilize the reaction product prior to  its arrival at the holding tank.  the calcium silicate material  produced by this process is particularly suitable for use as  high temperature insulation and has a porosity of in excess  of 84% and a permeability to gas of about . 01% or less.  the  thermal conductivity of the reaction product is substantially  lower than prior art calcium silicate insulations at high  temp­ erature.  
</ABSTRACT>
<DESCRIPTION>
method of and structure for forming a reaction product such as calcium silicate and the resulting structure. this invention relates to a method of forming a reaction product such as calcium silicate, structure employed in the method for forming this reaction product, and the resulting reaction product. shaped calcium silicate insulation is widely used, particularly for application involving temperatures above 4270c. a variety of processes for forming calcium silicate insulation products are known. for example, u.s. patents no. 3,988,419, 2,699,097, 2,90h,444, and 3,001,882 disclose methods for forming calcium silicate insulation. as disclosed in the '882 patent, the calcium silicate insulation typically is composed of crystals of synthetic tobermorite and/or xonotlite prepared by the induration of aqueous lime-silica slurries in which the molar ratio of lime-silica falls in the range of about 0.65:1 to 1:1 and the water-to-sclids ratio falls between about 0.75:1 to about 9.0:1. typically, in the preparation of low density insulation (i.e., densities ranging from about 0.10 - 0.30 g/cm ) asbestos fibers have been added as a reinforcing material to the slurry. a description of certain prior art techniques for producing molded materials of calcium silicate is described in u.s. patent 3,679,446 on an application of kubo. kubo states that it is difficult to obtain calcium silicate insulation products with uniform properties and satisfactory mechanical strength unless the induration reaction is conducted for a long period of time. kubo further states that the calcium silicates typically produced cannot satisfactorily withstand high temperatures with the result that a calcium silicate product composed mainly of tobermorite crystals is liable te decrease in mechanical strength markedly at 65000 or thereabout and to disintegrate or break down at over 7000c and that a product compose mainly of xonotlite crystals tends to desrease in mechanical strength markedly at a temperature higher than about 1000 c. kubo discloses a method of forming calcium silicate crystals wherein at least a given percent by weight of the calcium silicate crystals has formed therein "numerous small agglomerates of a diameter of 10-150 microns by being three dinensionally interlocked with one another," said agglomerates being dispersed in water "in substantially globular form." kubo also discloses the use of reinforcing fibers formed predominantly of pulp fiber. hoopes and weber disclose in u.s. patent 3,736,163 the formation of calcium silicate insulating material having densities on the order of 0,2 - 0,3 g/cm3 wherein asbestos reinforcing fibers are replaced by a reinforcing fiber comprising from about 3-15 % by weight of the calcium silicate material and consisting of nodulated mineral wool and cellulosic fiber, at least about 25 of the fiber being nodulated mineral wool. in the manufacture of calcium silicate products in accordance with the prior art, the reaction constituents (typically calcium oxide (cao) or hydrated calcium oxide ca(oh)2 ) are mixed with a siliceous material, such as sand, in water to form a slurry. this mixture is heated in an autoclave to form a variety of crystalline forms of calcium silicate depending upon the temperature, pressure, length of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 claims   1. the method of forming a reaction product comprising the steps of:  mixing the reaction constituents in an autoclave;  reacting the reaction constituents -for a selected time to form reaction products; and  transferring, at the end of said selected time, the reaction products from said autoclave to another vessel connected by a flow passage to said autoclave, while maintaining the pressure in said vessel in a controlled manner beneath the pressure in said autoclave during the transfer of the reaction products from said autoclave to said vessel.   2. the method of claim 1 wherein the step of transferring, at the end of said selected time, the reaction products from said autoclave to said vessel comprises:  maintaining the pressure in said vessel in a controlled manner below the pressure in said autoclave during the transfer of said reaction products from said autoclave to said vessel; and  removing a   portion    of the energy in said reaction products during the transfer of said reaction products from said autoclave to said vessel.   3. the method of claim 2 wherein said step of transferring the reaction products from said autoclave to said vessel comprises:  maintaining the pressure in said vessel in a controlled manner beneath the pressure in said autoclave;  allowing the reaction products in said autoclave to flow from said autoclave to said vessel through said flow passage, and  transferring a portion of the heat in said reaction products from said reaction products to another material thereby to make   available    the transferred heat for further use.   4. the method of claim 3 wherein said step of allowing the reaction products in said autoclave to flow from said autoclave to said vessel through said flow passage comprises   allowing    said reaction products to flow through said flow passage at a rate such that the reaction products are not substantially altered as a result of the flow process.      the    method of claim 3 or 4 wherein said step of transferring   n      portion    of the heat in said reaction products from said reaction products to another material comprises transferring   eat    from said reaction   product     at a rate so as to stabilize the reaction products in a desired form before the reaction products reach said vessel.   6. the method of claims 1, 2, 3 of 4 wherein the step of transferring the reaction products from said autoclave to said vessel through said flow passage comprises passing said reaction products through said flow passage at a reynolds number beneath   4,000.      7.   the    method of claim 6 wherein the reaction products are trans   ferried    from said autoclave to said vessel   through    said flow passage by a laminar flow process.   8. the method of claim 7 wherein the laminar flow process has a reynolds number of about 200.   9. the method of claims 1, 2, 3 or 4 wherein said reaction product is calcium silicate and said reaction constituents comprise calcium hydroxide, silicon dioxide and water.   10. the method of claims 1,2,3 or 4 wherein said reaction product comprises calcium silicate and said reaction constituents comprise calcium oxide, silicon dioxide and water.   11. the method of claim 9 wherein the weight ratio of calcium hydroxide to silicon dioxide is selected to give a mole ratio of calcium oxide to silicon dioxide of approximately one-to-one.   12. the method of claim 10 wherein the mole ratio of   calcium    oxide to silicon dioxide is approximately one-to-one.   13. the method of claim 11 wherein said selected time is   suc    as to insure the formation of xonotlite crystals in said autoclave.   14. the method of claim 12 wherein said selected time is such as to insure the formation of xonotlite crystals in said autoclave.   15.   the    method of   clain    3 wherein said naterial containing the heat transferred from said reaction products is   water      which    is suitable for use as a reaction constituent in said autoclave thereby to reduce the energy required to form a subsequent batch of reaction products.   16. the method of claim 1 wherein said reaction product is calcium silicate and the step of reacting the reaction constituents comprises heating the constituents to a temperature of about 197.4 c at a   prcssir±-      ef      abort    15 bars for about one hour and fifteen   minutes.      17. the   method    of claim 1 wherein   thine    pressure in said vessel is   maintained    beneath the pressure in said autoclave during the transfer of the contents of said autoclave to said vessel by an amount sufficient to prevent the   rupture    of the reactior. products   during    the transfer  of these reaction products from the autoclave to the vessel.      la.    the method of forming calcium silicate   comprising    the steps of  mixing reaction constituents consisting of calcium hydroxide and silicon dioxide so as to provide a mole ratio of calcium oxide to silicon dioxide of aproximately one-to-one and water in an autocrave;  heating the reaction constituents to a selected temperature and pressure for a selected time sufficient to allow the formation of a reaction product made up substantially of xonotlite crystals; ;  transferring the reaction products in said autoclave from said autoclave through a flow passage to another vessel at the end of said selected time while maintaining the pressure in said vessel no more than a selected amount beneath the pressure in said autoclave during the transfer of said reaction products from said autoclave to said vessel and simultaneously removing a portion of the heat from said reaction products while they pass through said flow passage;  adding selected fibrous material to said reaction product;  mixing said fibrous material substantially uniformly throughout said reaction product thereby to form a slurry;  removing a selected amount of water from said slurry; and  forming said slurry into selectively shaped insulation.   19.   the    method of claim 18 wherein the steps of removing a selected amount of water from said slurry and forming said slurry into insulation comprise:  placing said slurry in a mold;  removing water from said slurry;  subjecting said slurry in said mold to pressure for a selected time to form a molded product; and  drying said molded product to remove substantially all the remaining water from said product thereby to form calcium silicate insulation.    20. the method of claim 19 wherein said   calcium    silicate insulation has   åa    density   in    the range of between   2co      kilograms    per cubic meter to   400      kllcgrams    per cubic   meter.      21. the   mehot      0      claim    18 wherein said step of adding selected fibrous material comprises first   adding      non-nodulated    mineral wool fibers dispersed uniformly   in    water and   ten      adding    cellulose   fibers    ls   dispersed    uniformly in water.  22. structure for forming a calcium silicate insulation product comprising:  an autoclave for receiving calcium hydroxide, silicon dioxide and water and for reacting these constituents to form a calcium silicate slurry;  a holding vessel for receiving the calcium silicate slurry from said autoclave and for mixing fibrous material with said calcium silicate slurry;  a flow passage connecting said autoclave to said holding vessel for allowing the passage of said slurry from said autoclave to said holding vessel;  means for transferring heat from said slurry during its passage through. said flow passage;  and  means for maintaining the pressure in said holding vessel a controlled amount beneath the pressure in said autoclave during the transfer of the slurry from said autoclave to said holding vessel thereby to minimize the structural damage to the slurry during its transfer to said holding vessel.   23. structure as in claim 22 wherein said   flo    passage for allowing the passage of said slurry from said autoclave to said holding vessel and said means for   transferring    heat comprise a flow passage with a heat exchanger formed adjacent to at least a portion of said flow passage thereby to   allow    a portion of the heat in said slurry to transfer to another medium.   2h. structure as in claims 22 or 23 wherein said means for controlling the pressure of said holding vessel to a controlled amount beneath the pressure of said autoclave comprises:  a first pressure transducer   adapted    to measure   te    pressure in said holding vessel and produce a first signal representative thereof;  a second pressure transducer adapted to measure the pressure in said autoclave and produce a second signal representative thereof;   and     means responsive to said first signal and said second signal for controlling the position of a valve on said holding vessel thereby to maintain the pressure in said holding vessel   substantially    said controlled amount beneath the pressure in said autoclave.   25. a   system. for    forming a reaction product   comprising:       an autoclave for use in forming said reaction'product,  a holding vessel for receiving the reaction product formed in said autoclave;  a flow passage connecting said autoclave to   sxid    holding vessel,  means for maintaining the pressure in said hooding vessel in a controlled manner beneath the pressure in said autcclave during the transfer of the reaction product in said autoclave through said flow passage to said holding vessel; and  means for removing a portion of the heat from   slid    reaction product during the passage of said reaction product   though    said flow passage.   26. the system as in claim 25 wherein said means for maintaining the pressure comprises:  means for detecting the pressure in said holding vessel and producing a first output signal representative thereof;  means for detecting the pressure in said autoclave and producing a second output signal representative thereof; and  means responsive to said first output signal and said second output signal for holding the pressure in said holding vessel a substantially constant amount beneath the pressure in said autoclave.   27. the system as in claim 25 further comprising:  means directly adjacent at least a portion of said flow passage for transferring a portion of the heat from the reaction product to a heat storage medium.      28.    structure comprising:  an autoclave for use in forming a reaction product;  a   holing    vessel for receiving said reaction product;  a pressure release valve on said holding vessel;  a flow passage connecting said autoclave to said holding vessel; and  means for controlling the pressure in said holding vessel to be no more than a first selected   amount    and no less   then    a second selected amount beneath the pressure in said autoclave.      29.      structure    as in claim 25   wherein    said means for   controlling    the pressure comprises:  means for detecting the pressure in said holding vessel and   producing    a first output   signal    representative thereof;    means for detecting the pressure in said autoclave and producing a second output signal representative thereof;  and  means responsive to said first output signal and said second output signal for opening said valve to reduce the pressure in said holding vessel when the pressure in said holding vessel is less than said second selected   amount    beneath the pressure in said autoclave and for closing said valve when the pressure in said holding vessel is greater than said first selected amount beneath the pressure in said autoclave.   30. structure as in claim 29 wherein said means responsive to said first output signal and said second output signal comprises  an electrical circuit for producing an output signal when the pressure in said holding vessel is less than said second selected amount beneath the pressure in said autoclave and for producing no output signal when the pressure in said holding vessel is   greater    than said first selected amount beneath the pressure in said autoclave;  means connected to open and close said   valve'.    and  means for applying said output signal from said electrical circuit to said means connected to open and close said valve thereby to open said valve in response to said output signal and to close said valve during the absence of said output signal.   31. calcium silicate insulation comprising crystals of beta wollastonite with a porosity of greater than about   bh    percent and a gas permeability of less than about 0.01 percent.   32. calcium silicate insulation with a porosity of greater than about 84 percent and a gas permeability of less than about 0.01 percent.   33. insulation as in claim 32 with a thermal conductivity given as a function of   temperature    by the following table:  temperature, mean thermal conductivity   c ) (kcal/m/h/ c)  200 0.0555    400 0.0758     600   0.1055     800   0.1344      3)4.    insulation as in claim 32 with a thermal conductivity given   approximately    as a   function    of   temperature    by the following table:    temperature thermal conductivity (degrees centigrade) (watts per meter per degree centigrade)  20 0.07  300   o.11     600 0.17  900 0.22  1000 0.24 35. insulation as in claim 32 wherein said insulation comprises predominantly xonotlite crystals which transform to beta wollastonite crystals at about   8650c.       36. insulation comprising crystals of calcium silicate with cellulose and non-nodulated mineral wool fibers mixed substantially uniformly therethrough.   37. insulation as in claim 36 wherein said cellulose fibers and said non-nodulated mineral wool fibers each comprise by weight about 2.5 percent of the weight of the calcium hydroxide and silicon dioxide used to form said calcium silicate.   38. insulation as in claim 37 wherein the density of said insulation is between 200 kilograms per cubic meter and 400 kilograms per cubic meter.   39. the product made by the process of claim 18.   40. the method of claim 19 wherein said step of drying said molded product comprises   sabecting    said product to infrared radiation.  
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
